h28530
s 00001/00001/00116
d D 4.6 86/05/25 16:19:07 mckusick 6 5
c update for 4.3
e
s 00001/00003/00116
d D 4.5 86/05/10 20:14:48 mckusick 5 4
c format
e
s 00002/00002/00117
d D 4.4 85/09/10 12:37:00 mckusick 4 3
c bmac moves to /usr/new/lib
e
s 00020/00013/00099
d D 4.3 83/09/09 21:09:06 garrison 3 2
c add changes from new version from Arizona
e
s 00027/00026/00085
d D 4.2 83/09/09 21:07:18 nicklin 2 1
c 
e
s 00111/00000/00000
d D 4.1 83/07/03 19:40:43 sam 1 0
c date and time created 83/07/03 19:40:43 by sam
e
u
U
t
T
I 3
.\"	"%W%	%G%";
E 3
I 1
D 2
.TH bib/listrefs 1 local
E 2
I 2
D 6
.TH BIB 1 "28 July 1983"
E 6
I 6
.TH BIB 1 "%Q%" "Univ of Arizona"
E 6
.UC 4
E 2
.SH NAME
D 2
bib - bibliographic formatter
E 2
I 2
D 5
bib \- bibliographic formatter
E 2
.br
D 2
listrefs - list bibliographic reference items
E 2
I 2
listrefs \- list bibliographic reference items
E 5
I 5
bib, listrefs \- bibliographic formatter; list bibliographic reference items
E 5
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbib\fP [options] ...
.br
\fBlistrefs\fP [options] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIBib\fP is a preprocessor for \fInroff\fP or \fItroff\fP(1) that
formats citations and bibliographies.  The input files (standard input
default) are copied to the standard output, except for text between [. and .]
pairs, which are assumed to be keywords for searching a bibliographic database.
If a matching reference is found a citation is generated replacing the text.
References are collected, optionally sorted, and written out at a location
specified by the user.
D 2
Citation and reference formats are controlled by the -t option.
E 2
I 2
Citation and reference formats are controlled by the \-t option.
E 2
.PP
Reference databases are created using the \fIinvert\fP utility.
.PP
The following options are available.
D 2
Note that standard format styles (see the -t option) set options automatically.
E 2
I 2
Note that standard format styles (see the \-t option) set options automatically.
E 2
D 3
Thus if a standard format style is used, the user need not indicate any
E 3
I 3
Thus if a standard format style is used the user need not indicate any
E 3
further options for most documents.
D 2
.IP -aa 8m
E 2
I 2
.IP \-aa 8m
E 2
reduce author\*(CQs first names to abbreviations.
D 2
.IP -ar\fInum\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP \-ar\fInum\fP
E 2
D 3
reverse the first \fInum\fP author\*(CQs names
E 3
I 3
reverse the first \fInum\fP author's names.
If a number is not given all authors names are reversed.
E 3
D 2
.IP -ax
E 2
I 2
.IP \-ax
E 2
print authors last names in Caps-Small Caps style.  For example Budd becomes
B\s-2UDD\s+2.  This style is used by certain ACM publications.
D 2
.IP -ea 8m
E 2
I 2
D 3
.IP \-ea 8m
E 2
reduce editor\*(CQs first names to abbreviations.
D 2
.IP -er\fInum\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP \-er\fInum\fP
E 2
reverse the first \fInum\fP editor\*(CQs names
D 2
.IP -ex
E 2
I 2
.IP \-ex
E 2
print editors last names in Caps-Small Caps style.
E 3
D 2
.IP -c\fIstr\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP \-c\fIstr\fP
E 2
build citations according to the template \fIstr\fP.  See the reference
format designer\*(CQs guide for more information on templates.
I 3
.IP \-ea
reduce editors first names to abbreviations.
.IP \-ex
print editors last names in Caps-Small Caps style (see \-ax option).
.IP \-er\fInum\fP
reverse the first \fInum\fP editors names.  If a number is not given all
editors names are reversed.
E 3
D 2
.IP -f
E 2
I 2
.IP \-f
E 2
instead of collecting references, dump each
reference immediately following the line on which the citation is placed
(used for footnoted references).
D 2
.IP "-i \fIfile\fP"
E 2
I 2
.IP "\-i \fIfile\fP"
E 2
.ns
D 2
.IP  -i\fIfile\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP  \-i\fIfile\fP
E 2
process the indicated file, such as a file of definitions.
(see technical report for a description of file format).
D 2
.IP -h
E 2
I 2
.IP \-h
E 2
replace citations to three or more adjacent reference items with
a hyphenated string (eg 2,3,4,5 becomes 2-5).
I 3
This option implies the \-o option.
E 3
D 2
.IP -n\fIstr\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP \-n\fIstr\fP
E 2
turn off indicated options.  \fIstr\fP must be composed of the letters afhosx.
D 2
.IP -o
E 2
I 2
.IP \-o
E 2
contiguous citations are ordered according the the reference list before
being printed (default).
D 2
.IP "-p \fIfile\fP"
E 2
I 2
.IP "\-p \fIfile\fP"
E 2
.ns
D 2
.IP  -p\fIfile\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP  \-p\fIfile\fP
E 2
instead of searching the file INDEX,
D 3
search the indicated reference file before searching the system file.
E 3
I 3
search the indicated reference files before searching the system file.
\fIfiles\fP is a comma separated list of inverted indices, created using
the \fIinvert\fP utility.
E 3
D 2
.IP -s\fIstr\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP \-s\fIstr\fP
E 2
sort references according to the template \fIstr\fP.
D 2
.IP "-t \fItype\fP"
E 2
I 2
.IP "\-t \fItype\fP"
E 2
.ns
D 2
.IP -t\fItype\fP
E 2
I 2
.IP \-t\fItype\fP
E 2
use the standard macros and switch settings for the indicated style
to generate citations and references.
D 3
There are a number of standard styles provided.  In addition the user
E 3
I 3
There are a number of standard styles provided.  In addition users
E 3
can generate their own style macros.  See the format designers guide for
D 3
more details.
E 3
I 3
details.
E 3
.PP
D 3
\fIListrefs\fP formats an entire format file.  Options to \fIlistrefs\fP
are the same as for \fIbib\fP.  Items in the format file are not sorted.
E 3
I 3
\fIListrefs\fP formats an entire reference database file.
Options to \fIlistrefs\fP
are the same as for \fIbib\fP.
E 3
.PP
D 2
\fIBib\fP was designed initially for use with the -ms macros, and
uses a couple of the -ms macros (.ip and .lp) in its macro definitions.
To use it with the -me macros, prefix the file being sent to nroff/troff
E 2
I 2
\fIBib\fP was designed initially for use with the \-ms macros, and
uses a couple of the \-ms macros (.ip and .lp) in its macro definitions.
To use it with the \-me macros, prefix the file being sent to nroff/troff
E 2
with the following macro definitions:
.nf
.in +1.0i
\&.de IP
\&.ip \\$1 \\$2
\&..
\&.de LP
\&.lp
\&..
.fi
.in -1.0i
.PP
A file "bibmac.me" containing these macro
D 4
definitions may be found in /usr/lib/bmac.
E 4
I 4
definitions may be found in /usr/new/lib/bmac.
E 4
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
INDEX	inverted index for reference database
.br
/usr/dict/papers/INDEX	default system index
.br
D 4
/usr/lib/bmac/bmac.*	formatting macro packages
E 4
I 4
/usr/new/lib/bmac/bmac.*	formatting macro packages
E 4
.br
/usr/tmp/bibr*	scratch file for collecting references
.br
/usr/tmp/bibp*	output of pass one of bib
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIA UNIX Bibliographic Database Facility\fP, Timothy A. Budd and Gary M. Levin,
University of Arizona Technical Report 82-1, 1982.
(includes format designers guide).
.br
invert(1), troff(1)
E 1
