h61788
s 00001/00001/00146
d D 6.1 85/04/29 19:59:11 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00014/00007/00133
d D 5.1 85/04/29 19:58:38 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00140/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 19:58:15 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH AR 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH AR 1 "24 February 1979"
E 3
I 3
.TH AR 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
ar \- archive and library maintainer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ar
key [ posname ] afile name ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ar
maintains groups of files
combined into a single archive file.
Its main use
is to create and update library files as used by the loader.
It can be used, though, for any similar purpose.
.B N.B:
This version of
.I ar
uses a ASCII-format archive which is portable among the various
machines running \s-2UNIX\s0.
Programs for dealing with older formats are available: see
D 2
.IR old (8).
E 2
I 2
.IR arcv (8).
E 2
.PP
.I Key
is one character from the set
.B drqtpmx,
optionally concatenated with
one or more of
D 2
.B vuaibcl.
E 2
I 2
.B vuaibclo.
E 2
.I Afile
is the archive file.
The
.I names
are constituent files in the archive file.
The meanings of the
.I key
characters are:
.TP
.B d
Delete the named files from the archive file.
.TP
.B r
Replace the named files in the archive file.
If the optional character
.B u
is used with
.B r,
D 2
then only those files with
modified dates later than
E 2
I 2
then only those files with `last-modified' dates later than
E 2
the archive files are replaced.
If an optional positioning character from the set
.B abi
is used, then the
.I posname
argument must be present
and specifies that new files are to be placed
after
.RB ( a )
or before
.RB ( b
or
.BR i )
.IR posname .
Otherwise
new files are placed at the end.
.TP
.B q
Quickly append the named files to the end of the archive file.
Optional positioning characters are invalid.
The command does not check whether the added members
are already in the archive.
Useful only to avoid quadratic behavior when creating a large
archive piece-by-piece.
.TP
.B t
Print a table of contents of the archive file.
If no names are given, all files in the archive are tabled.
If names are given, only those files are tabled.
.TP
.B p
Print the named files in the archive.
.TP
.B m
Move the named files to the end of the archive.
If a positioning character is present,
then the
.I posname
argument must be present and,
as in
.B r,
specifies where the files are to be moved.
.TP
.B x
Extract the named files.
If no names are given, all files in the archive are
extracted.
In neither case does
.B x
D 2
alter the archive file.
E 2
I 2
alter the archive file. Normally the `last-modified' date of each
extracted file is the date when it is extracted. However, if
.B o
is used, the `last-modified' date is reset to the date recorded in the
archive.
E 2
.TP
.B v
Verbose.
Under the verbose option,
.I ar
gives a file-by-file
description of the making of a
new archive file from the old archive and the constituent files.
When used with
.B t,
it gives a long listing of all information about the files.
When used with
.BR p ,
it precedes each file with a name.
.TP
.B c
Create.
Normally
.I ar
will create
.I afile
when it needs to.
The create option suppresses the
normal message that is produced when
.I afile
is created.
.TP
.B l
Local.
Normally
.I ar
places its temporary files in the directory /tmp.
This option causes them to be placed in the local directory.
.SH FILES
/tmp/v*	temporaries
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
lorder(1), ld(1), ranlib(1), ar(5), arcv(8), old(8)
E 2
I 2
lorder(1), ld(1), ranlib(1), ar(5), arcv(8)
E 2
.SH BUGS
If the same file is mentioned twice in an argument list,
it may be put in the archive twice.
I 2
.LP
The `last-modified' date of a file will not be altered by the
.B o
option if the user is not the owner of the extracted file, or the super-user.
E 2
E 1
