h15573
s 00000/00007/00105
d D 6.5 03/11/08 22:35:25 msokolov 7 6
c -d124 works again!
e
s 00009/00006/00103
d D 6.4 03/11/08 16:23:31 msokolov 6 5
c document 3-way relaxation
e
s 00001/00001/00108
d D 6.3 86/05/08 15:23:29 anne 5 4
c spelling
e
s 00010/00000/00099
d D 6.2 86/05/05 15:24:58 mckusick 4 3
c add -a flag
e
s 00001/00001/00098
d D 6.1 85/04/29 18:07:56 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00006/00005/00093
d D 5.1 85/04/29 18:07:13 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00098/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 18:06:25 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH AS 1 "4/1/81"
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH AS 1 "July 1, 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH AS 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
as \- assembler
E 2
I 2
as \- VAX-11 assembler
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B as
[
I 4
.B \-a1-16
] [
[
E 4
.B \-d124
] [
.B \-L
] [
.B \-W
] [
.B \-V
] [
.B \-J
] [
.B \-R
] [
.B \-t
directory
] [
.B \-o
objfile ] [ name ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I As
assembles the named files, or the standard input if no file name is specified.
The available flags are:
I 4
.TP
.B \-a
Specifies the alignment of procedures and data blocks.
It is given as a power of two; thus an alignment of 3
D 5
causes alignment on an eight byte boundry.
E 5
I 5
causes alignment on an eight byte boundary.
E 5
The default is
.B \-a2.
E 4
.TP
.B \-d
Specifies the number of bytes to be assembled for offsets
which involve forward or external references, and which have sizes unspecified
in the assembly language.
The default is 
.B \-d4.
.TP
.B \-L
Save defined labels beginning with a `L', which are normally discarded
to save space in the resultant symbol table.
The compilers generate such temporary labels.
.TP
.B \-V
D 2
Use virtual memory for intermediate storage, rather than a temporary file.
E 2
I 2
Use virtual memory for some intermediate storage,
rather than a temporary file.
E 2
.TP
.B \-W
Do not complain about errors.
.TP
.B \-J
D 6
Use long branches to resolve jumps when byte-displacement branches are
insufficient.  This must be used when a compiler-generated assembly contains
branches of more than 32k bytes.
E 6
I 6
This flag is obsolete and ignored.
.I As
now automatically chooses between byte branches, word branches, and long jumps.
E 6
.TP
.B \-R
Make initialized data segments read-only, by concatenating them to
the text segments.
This obviates the need to run editor scripts on assembly
code to make initialized data read-only and shared.
.TP
.B \-t
Specifies a directory to receive the temporary file, other than
the default /tmp.
.PP
All undefined symbols in the assembly
are treated as global.
.PP
The output of the assembly is left on the file
.I objfile;
if that is omitted,
.I a.out
is used.
.SH FILES
.ta 1.5i
D 2
/tmp/as\(**	default temporary file
E 2
I 2
/tmp/as\(**	default temporary files
E 2
.br
a.out		default resultant object file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ld(1),
nm(1),
adb(1),
D 2
sdb(1),
E 2
I 2
dbx(1),
E 2
a.out(5)
.br
Auxiliary documentation
.I Assembler Reference Manual.
.SH AUTHORS
John F. Reiser
.br
Robert R. Henry
D 7
.SH BUGS
D 6
.B \-J
should be eliminated; the assembler should automatically choose among
byte, word and long branches.
E 6
I 6
.B \-d1
and
.B \-d2
do not work currently,
.B \-d4
(the default) is the only mode supported.
E 7
E 6
E 1
