h04948
s 00037/00002/00076
d D 6.4 04/01/02 10:56:15 msokolov 6 5
c document -7 and -8
e
s 00001/00007/00077
d D 6.3 87/09/29 20:45:10 bostic 5 4
c list all options; bug report 4.3BSD/man/22
e
s 00003/00002/00081
d D 6.2 86/05/05 15:27:05 mckusick 4 3
c fix description of buffering
e
s 00001/00001/00082
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:16:48 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00023/00029/00060
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:16:40 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00089/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:16:34 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH CAT 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH CAT 1 "18 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH CAT 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
cat \- catenate and print
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cat
[
D 5
.B \-u
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-v
E 5
I 5
D 6
.B \-benstuv
E 6
I 6
.B \-78benstuv
E 6
E 5
]
file ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cat
reads each
.I file
D 2
in sequence
and writes it on the standard output.
Thus
E 2
I 2
in sequence and displays it on the standard output.  Thus
E 2
.PP
.ti+15n
cat file
.PP
D 2
prints the file, and
E 2
I 2
displays the file on the standard output, and
E 2
.PP
.ti+15n
cat file1 file2 >file3
.PP
concatenates the first two files and places the result on the third.
.PP
D 2
If no input file is given,
or if the argument `\-' is encountered,
E 2
I 2
If no input file is given, or if the argument `\-' is encountered,
E 2
.I cat
D 2
reads from the standard
input file.
E 2
I 2
reads from the standard input file.
E 2
D 4
Output is buffered in 1024-byte blocks unless the standard
D 2
output is a terminal, in which case it is line buffered.
The
E 2
I 2
output is a terminal, in which case it is line buffered.  The
E 4
I 4
Output is buffered in the block size recommended by \fIstat\fP(2)
unless the standard output is a terminal,
when it is line buffered.  The
E 4
E 2
.B \-u
D 2
option causes the output to be completely unbuffered.
E 2
I 2
option makes the output completely unbuffered.
E 2
.PP
D 2
The option
E 2
I 2
The
E 2
.B \-n
D 2
causes the output lines to be numbered sequentially from 1.
Giving
E 2
I 2
option displays the output lines preceded by lines numbers, numbered
sequentially from 1.  Specifying the 
E 2
.B \-b
D 2
with
E 2
I 2
option with the
E 2
.B \-n
D 2
causes numbers to be omitted from blank lines.
E 2
I 2
option omits the line numbers from blank lines.
E 2
.PP
D 2
The option
E 2
I 2
The
E 2
.B \-s
D 2
causes the output to be single spaced by crushing out multiple adjacent
empty lines.
E 2
I 2
option crushes out multiple adjacent empty lines so that the
output is displayed single spaced.
E 2
.PP
D 2
The option
E 2
I 2
The
E 2
.B \-v
D 2
causes non-printing characters to be printed in a visible way.
E 2
I 2
option displays non-printing characters so that they are visible.
E 2
Control characters print like ^X for control-x; the delete character
(octal 0177) prints as ^?.
Non-ascii characters (with the high bit set) are printed as M-
D 2
(for meta) followed by the character of the low 7 bits.
A
E 2
I 2
(for meta) followed by the character of the low 7 bits.  A
E 2
.B \-e
D 2
option may be given with
E 2
I 2
option may be given with the
E 2
.B \-v
D 2
and causes the ends of lines to be followed by the character `$';
the
E 2
I 2
option, which displays a `$' character at the end of each line.
Specifying the 
E 2
.B \-t
D 2
option with
E 2
I 2
option with the
E 2
.B \-v
D 2
causes tabs to be printed as ^I.
E 2
I 2
option displays tab characters as ^I.
E 2
.PP
I 6
The
.B \-7
option converts the catted character stream from KOI-8 to KOI-7
by clearing the high bit of every character and inserting SO and SI
(octal 016 and 017) control characters as necessary so that Russian letters
in the input (octal 0300 through 0377 inclusive) can be distinguished
from their Latin (ASCII) counterparts.
The
.B \-8
option performs the opposite conversion by setting the high bit of
characters between 0100 and 0177 octal (inclusive) that are preceded by SO
(016 octal).
While it will seem counterintuitive, the
.B \-7
transformation includes the
.B \-8
transformation as its first step.
This is done so that if the input files contain a mixture of KOI-7 and KOI-8,
the output of
.I cat
.B \-7
will be in KOI-7 with the minimum necessary number of SO and SI control
characters.
The
.B \-7
and
.B \-8
options are incompatible with
.BR \-v .
.PP
E 6
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 6
cp(1), ex(1), more(1), pr(1), tail(1)
E 6
I 6
cp(1), ex(1), more(1), pr(1), tail(1), koi(7)
E 6
.SH BUGS
Beware of `cat a b >a' and `cat a b >b', which destroy
the input files before reading them.
I 6
.PP
.B \-7
option does not convert C1 high control characters to their equivalent
7-bit two-character escape sequences by ISO rules, instead
it merely clears the high bit.
E 6
E 1
