h02379
s 00002/00000/00110
d D 6.3 86/05/22 10:39:18 mckusick 5 4
c clarify that -R does not follow symbolic links
e
s 00008/00001/00102
d D 6.2 85/08/31 18:11:24 sam 4 3
c document -f
e
s 00021/00009/00082
d D 6.1 85/04/29 17:41:39 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00032/00116/00059
d D 5.1 85/04/29 17:41:26 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00175/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 17:41:18 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH CHMOD 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH CHMOD 1 "18 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH CHMOD 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
chmod \- change mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.B chmod
mode file ...
E 2
I 2
D 3
\fBchmod\fP mode file ...
E 3
I 3
\fBchmod\fP [
D 4
.B \-R
E 4
I 4
.B \-Rf
E 4
] mode file ...
E 3
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
The mode of
each named file
is changed
according to
.I mode,
which may be absolute or symbolic.
An absolute
.I mode
is an octal
number constructed
from the OR of the
following modes:
E 2
I 2
The mode of each named file is changed according to \fImode\fP,
which may be absolute or symbolic.  An absolute \fImode\fP
is an octal number constructed from the OR of the following modes:
E 2
.TP 10
4000
set user ID on execution
.br
D 2
.br
E 2
.ns
.TP 10
2000
set group ID on execution
.br
D 2
.br
E 2
.ns
.TP 10
1000
sticky bit, see
.IR  chmod (2)
.br
D 2
.br
E 2
.ns
.TP 10
0400
read by owner
.br
D 2
.br
E 2
.ns
.TP 10
0200
write by owner
.br
D 2
.br
E 2
.ns
.TP 10
0100
execute (search in directory) by owner
.br
D 2
.br
E 2
.ns
.TP 10
0070
read, write, execute (search) by group
.br
D 2
.br
E 2
.ns
.TP 10
0007
read, write, execute (search) by others
D 2
.PP
A symbolic
.I mode
has the form:
E 2
I 2
.LP
A symbolic \fImode\fP has the form:
E 2
.IP
.RI [ who ]
D 2
.I op permission
E 2
I 2
\fIop permission\fP
E 2
.RI [ "op permission" "] ..."
D 2
.PP
The
.I who
part is a combination
of the letters 
.B u
(for user's permissions),
.B g
(group)
and
.B o
(other).
The letter
.B a
stands for
.B ugo.
If
.I who
is omitted,
the default is
.I a
but the setting of
the file creation mask
(see umask(2))
is taken into account.
.PP
.I Op
can be
.B +
to add
.I permission
to the file's mode,
.B \-
to take away
.I permission
and
.B =
to assign
.I permission
absolutely
(all other bits will
be reset).
.PP
.I Permission
is any combination of the letters
.B r
(read),
.B w
(write),
.B x
(execute),
.B s
(set owner or group id)
and
.B t
(save text \- sticky).
Letters
E 2
I 2
.LP
The \fIwho\fP part is a combination of the letters \fBu\fP
(for user's permissions), \fBg\fP (group) and \fBo\fP (other).
The letter \fBa\fP stands for all, or \fBugo.\fP
If \fIwho\fP is omitted, the default is \fIa\fP
but the setting of the file creation mask (see umask(2)) is taken into account.
.LP
\fIOp\fP can be \fB+\fP to add \fIpermission\fP to the file's mode,
\fB\-\fP to take away \fIpermission\fP and \fB=\fP to assign
\fIpermission\fP absolutely (all other bits will be reset).
.LP
\fIPermission\fP is any combination of the letters \fBr\fP (read),
D 3
\fBw\fP (write), \fBx\fP (execute), \fBs\fP (set owner or group id)
and \fBt\fP (save text \- sticky).  Letters
E 2
.BR u,
D 2
.B g
or
.B o
indicate that
.I permission
is to be taken
from the current
mode.
Omitting
.I permission
is only useful
with
.B =
to take away
all permissions.
.PP
E 2
I 2
\fBg\fP or \fBo\fP indicate that \fIpermission\fP
is to be taken from the current mode.  Omitting \fIpermission\fP
E 3
I 3
\fBw\fP (write), \fBx\fP (execute),
\fBX\fP (set execute only if file is a directory
or some other execute bit is set),
\fBs\fP (set owner or group id)
and \fBt\fP (save text \- sticky).
Letters \fBu\fP, \fBg\fP, or \fBo\fP indicate that \fIpermission\fP
is to be taken from the current mode. 
Omitting \fIpermission\fP
E 3
is only useful with \fB=\fP to take away all permissions.
I 3
.PP
When the
.B \-R
option is given, 
.I chmod
recursively descends its directory arguments
setting the mode for each file as described above.
I 5
When symbolic links are encountered, their mode is not changed
and they are not traversed.
E 5
I 4
.PP
If the
.B \-f
option is given,
.I chmod
will not complain if it fails to change the mode
on a file.
E 4
E 3
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
E 2
The first example denies write permission to others,
D 3
the second makes a file executable:
E 3
I 3
the second makes a file executable by all if it is executable by anyone:
E 3
.IP
chmod o\-w file
.br
D 3
chmod +x file
E 3
I 3
chmod +X file
E 3
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.LP
E 2
Multiple symbolic modes separated by commas may be given.
D 2
Operations are performed
in the order specified.
The letter
.B s
is only useful
with
.B u
or
.B g.
.PP
E 2
I 2
Operations are performed in the order specified.  The letter
\fBs\fP is only useful with \fBu\fP or \fBg.\fP
.LP
E 2
Only the owner of a file (or the super-user) may change its mode.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
ls(1),
chmod(2),
stat(2),
umask(2),
chown(8)
E 2
I 2
ls(1), chmod(2), stat(2), umask(2), chown(8)
E 2
E 1
