h53677
s 00001/00001/00042
d D 6.1 85/04/29 17:44:17 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00011/00016/00032
d D 5.1 85/04/29 17:44:09 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00048/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 17:44:02 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH DEROFF 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH DEROFF 1  "18 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH DEROFF 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
deroff \- remove nroff, troff, tbl and eqn constructs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B deroff
[
.B \-w
]
file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Deroff
D 2
reads each file in sequence
and removes all
E 2
I 2
reads each file in sequence and removes all
E 2
.I nroff
and
.I troff
command lines, backslash constructions, macro definitions,
.I eqn
D 2
constructs
(between `.EQ' and `.EN' lines or between 
delimiters),
and table descriptions
and writes the remainder on the standard output.
E 2
I 2
constructs (between `.EQ' and `.EN' lines or between delimiters),
and table descriptions and writes the remainder on the standard output.
E 2
.I Deroff
D 2
follows chains of included files
(`.so' and `.nx' commands);
if a file has already been included, a `.so' is ignored and a `.nx' terminates execution.
If no input file is given,
E 2
I 2
follows chains of included files (`.so' and `.nx' commands);
if a file has already been included, a `.so' is ignored and a `.nx'
terminates execution.  If no input file is given,
E 2
.I deroff
reads from the standard input.
.PP
If the
.B \-w
D 2
flag is given, the output is a word list, one `word' (string of letters, digits, and apostrophes,
beginning with a letter; apostrophes are removed) per line, and all other characters ignored.
E 2
I 2
flag is given, the output is a word list, one `word' (string of letters,
digits, and apostrophes, beginning with a letter; apostrophes are removed)
per line, and all other characters ignored.
E 2
Otherwise, the output follows the original, with the deletions mentioned above.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
troff(1), eqn(1), tbl(1)
.SH BUGS
.I Deroff
is not a complete
.I troff
D 2
interpreter,
so it can be confused by subtle constructs.
E 2
I 2
interpreter, so it can be confused by subtle constructs.
E 2
Most errors result in too much rather than too little output.
E 1
