h64991
s 00001/00001/00038
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:22:07 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00003/00017/00036
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:22:00 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00053/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:21:54 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH DF 1
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH DF 1 "18 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH DF 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
df \- disk free
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B df
[
.B \-i
D 2
] [
.B \-l
E 2
] [ filesystem ... ] [ file ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Df
D 2
prints out the number of free blocks
E 2
I 2
prints out the amount of free disk space
E 2
available on the specified
.I filesystem,
e.g. ``/dev/rp0a'',
or on the filesystem in which the specified
.I file,
e.g. ``$HOME'',
is contained.
If no file system is specified,
the free space on all of
the normally mounted file systems
is printed.
I 2
The reported numbers are in kilobytes.
E 2
.PP
D 2
The reported numbers are in file system block units; currently each filesystem
block is 1024 bytes long, twice the size of the blocks reported by
.IR du (1)
or
.IR ls (1)
with the
.B \-s
option.
.PP
E 2
Other options are:
.TP
.B \-i
Report also the number of inodes which are used and free.
D 2
.TP
.B \-l
examines also the free list, double checking that the
summary number in the filesystem superblock is correct.
E 2
.SH FILES
/etc/fstab	list of normally mounted filesystems
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fstab(5), icheck(8), quot(8)
E 1
