h02059
s 00012/00006/00053
d D 4.3 88/10/22 16:51:34 bostic 3 2
c fold version from /usr/man on top; SCCS lines were:
c >>> 4.1   85/04/29 17:44:24       mckusick
c >>> manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
c >>>
c >>> 5.1   85/04/29 17:44:32       mckusick
c >>> manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
c >>>
c >>> 6.1   85/04/29 17:44:40       mckusick
c >>> 4.3BSD beta release manual page
c >>>
c >>> 6.2   86/05/10 19:55:36       mckusick
c >>> add space after comma
e
s 00000/00000/00059
d D 4.2 82/11/06 14:32:03 rrh 2 1
c Bill Jolitz @ Berkeley received this version from Lorindia Cherry
c around September 1981, as the ``most recent version''.  Deltas 
c seem to be progressive, rather than regressive, although the BTL sid for
c deroff.c is retrograde; this is probably a case of parallel development
e
s 00059/00000/00000
d D 4.1 82/11/06 13:47:34 rrh 1 0
c Oldest available version at Berkeley
e
u
U
t
T
I 3
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 3
I 1
.\"
D 3
.\" %W%	(Berkeley)	%E%
E 3
I 3
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
E 3
.\"
D 3
.TH DICTION 1 
E 3
I 3
.TH DICTION 1 "%Q%"
.AT 3
E 3
.SH NAME
D 3
diction \- print wordy sentences
.br
explain \- interactive thesaurus for diction
E 3
I 3
diction, explain \- print wordy sentences; thesaurus for diction
E 3
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diction
[
.B \-ml
] [
.B \-mm
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-f
pfile ]
file ...
.br
.B explain
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Diction
finds all sentences in a document that contain phrases
from a data base of bad or wordy diction.
Each phrase is bracketed with [ ].
Because
.I diction
runs
.I deroff
before looking at the text, formatting
header files should be included as part of the input.
The default macro package
.B \-ms
may be overridden with the flag
.B \-mm.
The flag
.B \-ml
which causes 
.B deroff
to skip lists, should be used if the document contains many lists of
non-sentences.
The user may supply her/his own pattern file to be used in addition to the default file
with
.B \-f
.I pfile.
If the flag
.B \-n
D 3
is also supplied the default file will be supressed.
E 3
I 3
is also supplied the default file will be suppressed.
E 3
.PP
.I Explain
is an interactive thesaurus for the phrases found by diction.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
deroff(1)
.SH BUGS
Use of non-standard formatting macros may cause
incorrect sentence breaks.
I 3
In particular,
.I diction
doesn't grok
.B \-me.
E 3
E 1
