h01493
s 00007/00001/00155
d D 6.3 87/10/08 11:30:39 bostic 8 5
c document -h, -o flags
e
s 00002/00004/00158
d R 6.4 87/10/07 18:28:43 bostic 7 6
c fix -f for grep
e
s 00006/00000/00156
d R 6.3 87/10/07 17:38:32 bostic 6 5
c document -h, -o flags
e
s 00002/00005/00154
d D 6.2 87/10/05 09:16:20 bostic 5 3
c egrep now supports -i
e
s 00001/00002/00157
d R 6.2 87/10/05 06:50:57 bostic 4 3
c egrep now handles -i
e
s 00001/00001/00158
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:26:20 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00046/00070/00113
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:26:06 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00183/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:25:58 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH GREP 1 8/11/80
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH GREP 1 "11 August 1980"
E 3
I 3
.TH GREP 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
grep, egrep, fgrep \- search a file for a pattern
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grep
[ option ] ...
expression [ file ] ...
.LP
.B egrep 
[ option ] ...
[ expression ]
[ file ] ...
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.LP
E 2
.B fgrep
[ option ] ...
[ strings ]
[ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Commands of the
.I grep
family search the input
.I files
D 2
(standard input default)
for lines matching
a pattern.
Normally, each line found
is copied to the standard output.
E 2
I 2
(standard input default) for lines matching a pattern.
Normally, each line found is copied to the standard output.
E 2
.I Grep
patterns are limited regular expressions in the style of
.IR ex (1);
it uses a compact nondeterministic algorithm.
.I Egrep
D 2
patterns are full regular expressions;
it uses a fast deterministic algorithm that
sometimes needs exponential space.
E 2
I 2
patterns are full regular expressions; it uses a fast deterministic
algorithm that sometimes needs exponential space.
E 2
.I Fgrep
patterns are fixed strings; it is fast and compact.
The following options are recognized.
.TP
.B \-v
D 2
All lines but those matching
are printed.
E 2
I 2
All lines but those matching are printed.
E 2
.TP
.B \-x
(Exact) only lines matched in their entirety are printed
.RI ( fgrep
only).
.TP
.B \-c
Only a count of matching lines is printed.
.TP
.B \-l
D 2
The names of files with matching lines are listed (once)
separated by newlines.
E 2
I 2
The names of files with matching lines are listed (once) separated by newlines.
E 2
.TP
.B \-n
D 2
Each line is preceded by
its relative line number in the file.
E 2
I 2
Each line is preceded by its relative line number in the file.
E 2
.TP
.B \-b
D 2
Each line is preceded by the block number
on which it was found.
This is sometimes useful in locating
disk block numbers by context.
E 2
I 2
Each line is preceded by the block number on which it was found.
This is sometimes useful in locating disk block numbers by context.
E 2
.TP
I 8
.B \-h
Never print filename headers with output lines.
.TP
.B \-o
Always print filename headers with output lines.
.TP
E 8
.B \-i
D 2
The case of letters is ignored in making comparisons.
(E.g. upper and lower case are considered identical.)
(\fIgrep\fR\| and \fIfgrep\fR only)
E 2
I 2
The case of letters is ignored in making comparisons \(em that is, upper and
D 5
lower case are considered identical.  This applies to \fIgrep\fR\| and
\fIfgrep\fR only.
E 5
I 5
lower case are considered identical.
E 5
E 2
.TP
.B \-s
D 2
Silent mode.
Nothing is printed (except error messages).
E 2
I 2
Silent mode.  Nothing is printed (except error messages).
E 2
This is useful for checking the error status.
.TP
.B \-w
The expression is searched for as a word
(as if surrounded by `\e<' and `\e>', see
.IR ex (1).)
(\fIgrep\fR\| only)
.TP
.BI \-e " expression"
Same as a simple
.I expression 
D 2
argument,
but useful when the
E 2
I 2
argument, but useful when the
E 2
.I expression
begins with a \-.
.TP
.BI \-f " file"
D 5
The regular expression
.RI ( egrep )
or string list
E 5
I 5
D 8
The regular expression (\fIgrep\fP or \fIegrep\fP) or string list
E 8
I 8
The regular expression (\fIegrep\fP) or string list
E 8
E 5
.RI ( fgrep ) 
is taken from the
.I file.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.LP
E 2
In all cases the file name is shown if there is more than one input file.
D 2
Care should be taken when
using the characters
$ * [ ^ | ( ) and \\ in the
E 2
I 2
Care should be taken when using the characters $ * [ ^ | ( ) and \\ in the
E 2
.I expression
D 2
as they are
also meaningful to the Shell.
It is safest to enclose the
entire
E 2
I 2
as they are also meaningful to the Shell.  It is safest to enclose the entire
E 2
.I expression
argument in single quotes \' \'.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.LP
E 2
.I Fgrep
searches for lines that contain one of the (newline-separated)
.I strings.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.LP
E 2
.I Egrep
accepts extended regular expressions.
D 2
In the following description `character' excludes
newline:
E 2
I 2
In the following description `character' excludes newline:
E 2
.IP
D 2
A \e followed by a single character
other than newline
matches that character.
E 2
I 2
A \e followed by a single character other than newline matches that character.
E 2
.IP
D 2
The character ^ ($) matches the beginning (end) of
a line.
E 2
I 2
The character ^ matches the beginning of a line.
E 2
.IP
I 2
The character $ matches the end of a line.
.IP
E 2
A 
.B .
D 2
matches any character.
E 2
I 2
(period) matches any character.
E 2
.IP
A single character not otherwise endowed with special
meaning matches that character.
.IP
D 2
A string enclosed in brackets [\|]
matches any single character from the string.
Ranges of ASCII character codes may be abbreviated
as in `a\-z0\-9'.
E 2
I 2
A string enclosed in brackets [\|] matches any single character from the string.
Ranges of ASCII character codes may be abbreviated as in `a\-z0\-9'.
E 2
A ]
may occur only as the first character of the string.
D 2
A literal \- must be placed where it can't be
mistaken as a range indicator.
E 2
I 2
A literal \- must be placed where it can't be mistaken as a range indicator.
E 2
.IP
D 2
A regular expression followed by * (+, ?) matches a sequence
of 0 or more (1 or more, 0 or 1)
E 2
I 2
A regular expression followed by an * (asterisk) matches a sequence of 0
or more matches of the regular expression.
A regular expression followed by a + (plus) matches a sequence of 1 or more
E 2
matches of the regular expression.
I 2
A regular expression followed by a ? (question mark) matches a sequence of
0 or 1 matches of the regular expression.
E 2
.IP
D 2
Two regular expressions concatenated
match a match of the first followed by a match of 
the second.
E 2
I 2
Two regular expressions concatenated match a match of the first followed
by a match of the second.
E 2
.IP
Two regular expressions separated by | or newline
D 2
match either a match for the first or a match for the
second.
E 2
I 2
match either a match for the first or a match for the second.
E 2
.IP
A regular expression enclosed in parentheses
matches a match for the regular expression.
.LP
D 2
The order of precedence of operators
at the same parenthesis level
is [\|] then
*+? then concatenation then | and newline.
E 2
I 2
The order of precedence of operators at the same parenthesis level
is [\|] then *+? then concatenation then | and newline.
.LP
Ideally there should be only one
.I grep,
but we don't know a single algorithm that spans a wide enough
range of space-time tradeoffs.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ex(1),
sed(1),
sh(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is 0 if any matches are found,
1 if none, 2 for syntax errors or inaccessible files.
.SH BUGS
D 2
Ideally there should be only one
.I grep,
but we don't know a single algorithm that spans a wide enough
range of space-time tradeoffs.
.PP
Lines
are limited to 256 characters;
longer lines are truncated.
E 2
I 2
Lines are limited to 256 characters; longer lines are truncated.
E 2
E 1
