h29703
s 00010/00005/00048
d D 6.5 88/07/09 11:44:59 bostic 6 5
c install approved copyright notice
e
s 00013/00005/00040
d D 6.4 87/11/30 11:06:06 bostic 5 4
c mention /dev/null, put on Berkeley copyright
e
s 00017/00040/00028
d D 6.3 87/08/03 19:33:41 bostic 4 3
c may now install multiple files, no default owner/group
e
s 00001/00001/00067
d D 6.2 87/07/17 14:12:55 bostic 3 2
c install in C, stripped during cpy
e
s 00001/00001/00067
d D 6.1 85/04/29 21:10:53 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00068/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/04/29 21:10:40 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 5
I 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1987 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 5
.\"
I 5
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
D 6
.\" provided that this notice is preserved and that due credit is given
.\" to the University of California at Berkeley. The name of the University
.\" may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" software without specific written prior permission. This software
.\" is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
E 6
I 6
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
E 6
.\"
E 5
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH INSTALL 1 "22 April 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH INSTALL 1 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
install \- install binaries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B install
[
.B \-c
] [
.B \-m
mode ] [
.B \-o
owner ] [
.B \-g
group ] [
.B \-s
D 4
] binary destination
E 4
I 4
] file1 file2; or file1 ... fileN directory
E 4
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 4
.I Binary
is moved (or copied if 
.B \-c
is specified) to
.IR destination .
If
.I destination
already exists,
it is removed before
.I binary
is moved.
If the destination is a directory then
.I binary
is moved into the
.I destination
directory with its original file-name.
E 4
I 4
The file(s) are moved (or copied if the \fB-c\fP option is specified)
to the target file or directory.  If the destination is a directory, then
the \fIfile\fP is moved into \fIdirectory\fP with its original file-name.
If the target file already exists, it is overwritten.
E 4
.PP
D 4
The mode for
.I Destination
is set to 755; the
.B \-m
.I mode
option may be used to specify a different mode.
E 4
I 4
The mode is set to 755; the \fB-m\fP option may be used to specify
an alternate mode.
E 4
.PP
D 4
.I Destination
is changed to owner root; the
.B \-o
.I owner
option may be used to specify a different owner.
E 4
I 4
D 5
The \fB-o\fP and \fB-g\fP options may be used to specify an alternate
owner and/or group, respectively.
E 5
I 5
The \fB-o\fP and \fB-g\fP options may be used to specify an owner
and/or group, respectively.
E 5
E 4
.PP
D 4
.I Destination
is changed to group staff; the
.B \-g
.I group
option may be used to specify a different group.
E 4
I 4
The \fB-s\fP option causes the file to be stripped.  It is an error
to attempt to strip a file not in the \fIa.out\fP format, but not to
attempt to strip a file that has already been stripped.
E 4
.PP
D 4
If the
.B \-s
D 3
option is specified the binary is stripped after being installed.
E 3
I 3
option is specified the binary is stripped.
E 3
.PP
.I Install
refuses to move a file onto itself.
E 4
I 4
\fIInstall\fP refuses to move a file onto itself.
I 5
.PP
Installing ``/dev/null'' creates an empty file.
E 5
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of 1 is returned.
E 4
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 4
chgrp(1), chmod(1), cp(1), mv(1), strip(1), chown(8)
E 4
I 4
chgrp(1), chmod(1), cp(1), mv(1), strip(1), a.out(5), chown(8)
E 4
E 1
