h13670
s 00004/00001/00063
d D 6.3 88/03/08 21:55:02 bostic 5 4
c document the -f option
e
s 00001/00002/00063
d D 6.2 86/01/05 19:09:04 mckusick 4 3
c X indicates that the program was terminated by some signal
e
s 00004/00002/00061
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:28:08 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00038/00028/00025
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:27:57 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00053/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:27:50 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH LASTCOMM 1 10/27/79
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH LASTCOMM 1 "4 April 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH LASTCOMM 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC
.SH NAME
lastcomm \- show last commands executed in reverse order
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lastcomm
I 5
[ -f file ]
E 5
D 2
[ command name ] ... [user name] ...
E 2
I 2
[ command name ] ... [user name] ... [terminal name] ...
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
.PP
E 2
.I Lastcomm
gives information on previously executed commands.
D 2
.I Lastcomm
with no arguments prints information about all the commands recorded
E 2
I 2
With no arguments,
.I lastcomm
prints information about all the commands recorded
E 2
D 5
during the current accounting file's lifetime.
E 5
I 5
during the current accounting file's lifetime.  The \fI-f\fP option
causes \fIlastcomm\fP to read from a file other than the default
accounting file.
E 5
D 2
If called with arguments, only those accounting entries whose command
name or user name matches one of the arguments are printed.
E 2
I 2
If called with arguments, only accounting entries with a
matching command
name, user name, or terminal name are printed.
E 2
So, for example,
I 2
.ti +0.5i
lastcomm a.out root ttyd0
E 2
.br
D 2
	lastcomm a.out
.br
E 2
would produce a listing of all the
D 2
executions of commands named a.out, and
.br
	lastcomm root
.br
would produce a listing of all the commands executed by user root.
.LP

E 2
I 2
executions of commands named
.I a.out
by user
.I root
on the terminal
.IR ttyd0 .
E 2
.PP
For each process entry, the following are printed.
I 2
.in +0.5i
The name of the user who ran the process.
E 2
.br
D 2
	The name of the user who ran the process.
E 2
I 2
Flags, as accumulated by the accounting facilities in the system.
E 2
.br
D 2
	The command name under which the process was called.
E 2
I 2
The command name under which the process was called.
E 2
.br
D 2
	The amount of cpu time used by the process (in seconds).
E 2
I 2
The amount of cpu time used by the process (in seconds).
E 2
.br
D 2
	The time the process exited.
.br
.LP

.SH "AUTHOR"
Len Edmondson

E 2
I 2
The time the process exited.
.in -0.5i
.PP
The flags are encoded as follows: ``S'' indicates the command was
executed by the super-user, ``F'' indicates the command ran after
a fork, but without a following 
.IR exec ,
``C'' indicates the command was run in PDP-11 compatibility mode
(VAX only),
``D'' indicates the command terminated with the generation of a
.I core
D 4
file, and ``X'' indicates the command was terminated with the signal
SIGTERM.
E 4
I 4
file, and ``X'' indicates the command was terminated with a signal.
E 4
I 3
.SH FILES
/usr/adm/acct
E 3
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
last (1)
.br
E 2
I 2
last(1),
sigvec(2),
D 3
acct(5),
E 3
I 3
acct(8),
E 3
core(5)
E 2
E 1
