h42775
s 00012/00022/00031
d D 6.3 87/09/10 11:34:22 bostic 5 4
c document -t, -h, minor reformatting
e
s 00030/00053/00023
d D 6.2 86/12/10 05:53:17 bostic 4 3
c added -f flag, hosts args, general cleanup
e
s 00001/00001/00075
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:27:44 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00007/00001/00069
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:27:36 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00070/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:27:29 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH LAST 1 4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH LAST 1 "1 April 1981"
E 3
I 3
.TH LAST 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 4
last \- indicate last logins of users and teletypes
E 4
I 4
last \- indicate last logins of users and ttys
E 4
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 4
.B last
[
I 2
\-N
]
[
E 2
name ...
] [
tty ...
]
E 4
I 4
D 5
\fBlast\fP [-f file] [-#] [users ...] [ttys ...] [hosts ...]
E 5
I 5
\fBlast\fP [-#] [-f file] [-h host] [-t tty] [user ...]
E 5
E 4
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 4
.I Last
will look back in the
.I wtmp
file which records all logins and logouts for information about
a user, a teletype or any group of users and teletypes.
Arguments specify names of users or teletypes of interest.
Names of teletypes may be given fully or abbreviated.
For example `last 0' is the same as `last tty0'.
If multiple arguments are given, the information which applies
to any of the arguments is printed.  For example `last root console'
would list all of "root's" sessions as well as all sessions
on the console terminal.
.I Last
will print the sessions of the specified users and teletypes,
most recent first, indicating the times at which the session
began, the duration of the session, and the teletype which the
session took place on.
If the session is still continuing or was cut short by a reboot,
.I last
so indicates.
E 4
I 4
\fILast\fP will list the sessions of specified \fIusers,\fP \fIttys,\fP
and \fIhosts,\fP in reverse time order.  Each line of output contains
the user name, the tty from which the session was conducted, any
hostname, the start and stop times for the session, and the duration
of the session.  If the session is still continuing or was cut short by
D 5
a reboot, \fIlast\fP will so indicate.
E 5
I 5
a crash or shutdown, \fIlast\fP will so indicate.
E 5
E 4
.PP
D 4
The pseudo-user
.B reboot
logs in at reboots of the system, thus
E 4
I 4
D 5
\fILast\fP reads the file \fIfile\fP, or by default, /usr/adm/wtmp.
The \fI-#\fP option limits the report to \fI#\fP lines.
E 5
I 5
\fILast\fP reads the file \fIfile\fP, or by default, \fI/usr/adm/wtmp\fP.
The \fB-#\fP option limits the report to \fB#\fP lines.
E 5
.PP
Other arguments specify \fIusers,\fP \fIttys\fP or \fIhosts\fP of interest.
D 5
Tty names may be given fully or abbreviated, e.g., "last 03" is equivalent
to "last tty03".  Host names should not include domain information, and
may be internet numbers.  If multiple arguments are given, the information
which applies to any of the arguments is printed, e.g., "last root console"
would list all of "root's" sessions as well as all sessions on the console
terminal. If no users or terminals are specified, \fIlast\fP prints a record
of all logins and logouts.
E 5
I 5
Tty names may be given fully or abbreviated, e.g., ``last -t 03'' is
equivalent to ``last -t tty03''.  Host names may be internet numbers.  If
multiple arguments are given, the information which applies to any of the
arguments is printed, e.g., ``last root -t console'' would list all of
``root's'' sessions as well as all sessions on the console terminal. If no
users, hostnames or terminals are specified, \fIlast\fP prints a record of
all logins and logouts.
E 5
.PP
The pseudo-user \fBreboot\fP logs in at reboots of the system, thus
E 4
D 5
.DT
E 5
I 5
``last reboot'' will give an indication of mean time between reboot.
E 5
.PP
D 5
	last reboot
.PP
will give an indication of mean time between reboot.
.PP
E 5
D 4
.I Last
with no arguments prints a record of all logins and logouts, in
reverse order.
I 2
The
.B \-N
option limits the report to N lines.
E 2
.PP
If
.I last
is interrupted, it indicates how far the search has progressed
in
.I wtmp.
If interrupted with a quit signal
(generated by a control-\e)
.I last
indicates how far the search has progressed so far, and the
search continues.
E 4
I 4
If \fIlast\fP is interrupted, it indicates to what date the search has
progressed.  If interrupted with a quit signal \fIlast\fP indicates how
far the search has progressed and then continues.
E 4
.SH FILES
/usr/adm/wtmp		login data base
.br
D 4
/usr/adm/shutdownlog	which records shutdowns and reasons for same
.SH SEE\ ALSO
wtmp(5), ac(8), lastcomm(1)
E 4
I 4
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lastcomm(1), utmp(5), ac(8)
D 5
.SH BUGS
\fILast\fP does not distinguish between different types of information.  The
command "last ucbvax" will report all sessions of the user "ucbvax" as well
as all logins from the host "ucbvax.berkeley.edu".
E 4
.SH AUTHOR
Howard Katseff
E 5
E 1
