h18382
s 00003/00002/00078
d D 6.3 86/11/26 12:18:44 bostic 5 4
c documented (slightly) the directory linking capability 
c of ln
e
s 00012/00007/00068
d D 6.2 86/04/10 19:06:20 mckusick 4 3
c clarifications from sechrest
e
s 00001/00001/00074
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:31:20 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00036/00013/00039
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:31:07 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00052/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:30:58 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH LN 1 11/16/79
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH LN 1 "17 March 1982"
E 3
I 3
.TH LN 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
ln \- make links
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ln
I 2
[
.B \-s
]
E 2
D 4
name1 [ name2 ]
E 4
I 4
sourcename [ targetname ]
E 4
.br
.B ln
D 4
name ... directory
E 4
I 4
[
.B \-s
]
sourcename1 sourcename2 [ sourcename3 ... ] targetdirectory
E 4
.SH DESCRIPTION
A link is a directory entry referring
to a file; the same file (together with
its size, all its protection
information, etc.)
may have several links to it.
D 2
There is no way to distinguish a link to a file
from its original directory entry;
any changes in the
file are effective
independently of the name by which the file is known.
E 2
I 2
There are two kinds of links: hard links and symbolic links.
E 2
.PP
I 2
By default
.I ln
makes hard links.
A hard link to a file is indistinguishable from the
original directory entry; any changes to a
file are effective independent of the name used
D 5
to reference the file.
Hard links may not span file systems and may not refer to directories.
E 5
I 5
to reference the file.  Hard links may not refer to directories
(unless the proper incantations are supplied) and may not span
file systems.
E 5
.PP
The
.B \-s
option causes
.I ln
to create symbolic links.
A symbolic link contains the name of the file to
which it is linked.  The referenced file is used when an
.IR open (2)
operation is performed on the link.
A
.IR stat (2)
on a symbolic link will return the linked-to file; an
.IR lstat (2)
must be done to obtain information about the link.
The
.IR readlink (2)
call may be used to read the contents of a symbolic link.
Symbolic links may span file systems and may refer to directories.
.PP
E 2
Given one or two arguments,
.I ln
creates a link to an existing file
D 4
.IR name1 .
E 4
I 4
.IR sourcename .
E 4
If
D 4
.I name2
E 4
I 4
.I targetname
E 4
is given, the link has that name;
D 4
.I name2
E 4
I 4
.I targetname
E 4
may also be a directory in which to place the link;
otherwise it is placed in the current directory.
D 2
If only the directory is specified, the link will be made with
its name the same as the last component
of
E 2
I 2
If only the directory is specified, the link will be made
to the last component of
E 2
D 4
.IR name1 .
E 4
I 4
.IR sourcename .
E 4
.PP
Given more than two arguments,
.I ln
D 4
makes links to all the named files in the named directory.
E 4
I 4
makes links in 
.I targetdirectory
to all the named source files.
E 4
The links made will have the same name as the files being linked to.
D 2
.PP
It is forbidden to link to a directory
or to link across file systems.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
rm(1), cp(1), mv(1)
E 2
I 2
rm(1), cp(1), mv(1), link(2), readlink(2), stat(2), symlink(2)
E 2
E 1
