h45492
s 00010/00005/00068
d D 6.3 88/07/09 11:45:00 bostic 3 2
c install approved copyright notice
e
s 00010/00011/00063
d D 6.2 88/05/24 10:16:13 bostic 2 1
c add Berkeley specific header; clarify what gets logged
e
s 00074/00000/00000
d D 6.1 85/09/17 20:24:07 eric 1 0
c enter messages in system log -- new with 4.3 Beta release
e
u
U
f b 
f i 
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
D 2
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 2
I 2
.\" All rights reserved.
E 2
.\"
I 2
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
D 3
.\" provided that this notice is preserved and that due credit is given
.\" to the University of California at Berkeley. The name of the University
.\" may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" software without specific prior written permission. This software
.\" is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
E 3
I 3
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
E 3
.\"
E 2
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.TH LOGGER 1 "%Q%"
.UC 6
.SH NAME
logger \- make entries in the system log
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B logger
[
.B \-t
tag
] [
.B \-p
pri
] [
.B \-i
] [
.B \-f
file
] [
message ...
]
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12n
.BI \-t \ tag
Mark every line in the log with the specified
.IR tag .
.TP
.BI \-p \ pri
Enter the message with the specified priority.
The priority may be specified numerically
or as a ``facility.level''
pair.
For example, ``\-p local3.info''
logs the message(s) as
.IR info rmational
level in the
.I local3
facility.
The default is ``user.notice.''
.TP
.B \-i
Log the process id of the logger process
with each line.
.TP
.BI \-f \ file
Log the specified file.
.TP
message
D 2
The message to log;
if not specified,
the
.B \-f
file or standard input is logged.
E 2
I 2
The message to log; if not specified, and the \fB-f\fP flag is not
provided, standard input is logged.
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Logger
provides a program interface to the
.IR syslog (3)
system log module.
D 2
.PP
A message can be given on the command line,
which is logged immediately,
or a file is read and each line is logged.
E 2
.SH EXAMPLES
logger System rebooted
.PP
logger \-p local0.notice \-t HOSTIDM \-f /dev/idmc
.SH SEE ALSO
syslog(3),
syslogd(8)
E 1
