h18050
s 00012/00013/00016
d D 6.3 87/04/26 12:21:17 bostic 5 4
c bug report 4.2BSD/ucb/55
e
s 00000/00004/00029
d D 6.2 86/05/07 13:22:44 mckusick 4 3
c delete author
e
s 00018/00008/00015
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:31:41 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00022
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:31:34 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00023/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:31:27 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH LOCK 1 2/24/79
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH LOCK 1 "24 February 1979"
E 3
I 3
.TH LOCK 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC
.SH NAME
lock \- reserve a terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lock
I 3
[
D 5
.B \-number
E 5
I 5
.B -p
] [
.B -number
E 5
]
.br
E 3
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 5
.I Lock
D 3
requests a password from the user, then prints "LOCKED" on
the terminal and refuses to relinquish the terminal until
the password is repeated.  If the user forgets the password,
he has no other recourse but to login elsewhere and kill
the lock process.
E 3
I 3
requests a password from the user, reads it again for verification and
then it will normally not relinquish the terminal until the password is
repeated. There are three other conditions under it will terminate:
it accepts the password for root as an alternative to the one given
by the user, it will timeout after some interval of time,
and it may be killed by somebody with the appropiate permission.
The default time limit is 15 minutes but it may be changed with the
.B \-number
option where
.I number
is the time limit in minutes.
E 5
I 5
\fILock\fP requests a password from the user, reads it again for verification
and then it will normally not relinquish the terminal until the password is
repeated.  There are three other conditions under which it will terminate: it
accepts the password for root as an alternative to the one given by the
user, it will timeout after some interval of time, and it may be killed by
somebody with the appropriate permission. The default time limit is 15 minutes
but it may be changed with the \fI-number\fP option where \fInumber\fP is the
time limit in minutes.  The \fI-p\fP option has \fIlock\fP use the user's
standard password instead of requesting another one.
E 5
E 3
D 4
.SH AUTHOR
D 3
Kurt Shoens
E 3
I 3
Kurt Shoens. Timeout and other features by Eduardo Pelegri-Llopart.
E 3
.SH BUGS
D 3
Should timeout after 15 minutes.
E 3
I 3
None known.
E 4
E 3
E 1
