h36622
s 00001/00001/00206
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:32:31 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00184/00053/00023
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:32:18 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00076/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:32:10 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH LPR 1 4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH LPR 1 "28 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH LPR 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
lpr, lprm, lpq, print \- line printer spooler
E 2
I 2
lpr \- off line print
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpr
[
D 2
.B \-m
] [ name ... ]
.br
.B lprm
E 2
I 2
.BI \-P printer
] [
.BI \-# num
] [
.B \-C
.I class
] [
.B \-J
.I job
] [
.B \-T
.I title
] [
.B \-i
E 2
[
D 2
id ...
E 2
I 2
.I numcols
]] [
.B \-1234
.I font
E 2
] [
D 2
filename ...
E 2
I 2
.BI \-w num
E 2
] [
D 2
owner ...
E 2
I 2
.B \-pltndgvcfrmhs
] [
name ...
E 2
]
D 2
.br
.B lpq
.br
.B print
file ...
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
.I Lpr 
causes the
named files
to be queued for printing.
If no files are named, the standard input is read.
The option
.B \-m
causes notification via
.IR mail (1)
to be sent when the job completes.
E 2
I 2
.B Lpr
uses a spooling daemon to print the named files when facilities
become available.  If no names appear, the standard input is assumed.
The
.B \-P
option may be used to force output to a specific printer.  Normally,
the default printer is used (site dependent), or the value of the
environment variable PRINTER is used.
E 2
.PP
D 2
.I Lprm
removes an entry from the line printer queue.
The id, filename or owner should be that reported by
.I lpq.
All appropriate files will be removed.
The id of each file removed from the queue will be printed.
E 2
I 2
The following single letter options are used to notify the line printer
spooler that the files are not standard text files. The spooling daemon will
use the appropriate filters to print the data accordingly.
.IP \fB\-p\fP 5
Use
.IR pr (1)
to format the files (equivalent to
.IR print ).
.IP \fB\-l\fP 5
Use a filter which allows control characters to be printed and suppresses
page breaks.
.IP \fB\-t\fP 5
The files are assumed to contain data from
.IR troff (1)
(cat phototypesetter commands).
.IP \fB\-n\fP 5
The files are assumed to contain data from
.I ditroff
(device independent troff).
.IP \fB\-d\fP 5
The files are assumed to contain data from
.IR tex (l)
(DVI format from Stanford).
.IP \fB\-g\fP 5
The files are assumed to contain standard plot data as produced by the
.IR plot (3X)
routines (see also
.IR plot (1G)
for the filters used by the printer spooler).
.IP \fB\-v\fP 5
The files are assumed to contain a raster image for devices like the
Benson Varian.
.IP \fB\-c\fP 5
The files are assumed to contain data produced by
.IR cifplot (l).
.IP \fB\-f\fP 5
Use a filter which interprets the first character of each line as a
standard FORTRAN carriage control character.
E 2
.PP
D 2
.I Lpq
prints the line printer queue.
Each entry in the queue is printed showing the owner of the queue entry,
an identification number,
the size of the entry in characters,
and the file which is to be printed.
E 2
I 2
The remaining single letter options have the following meaning.
.IP \fB\-r\fP 5
Remove the file upon completion of spooling or upon completion of
printing (with the \fB\-s\fP option).
.IP \fB\-m\fP 5
Send mail upon completion.
.IP \fB\-h\fP 5
Suppress the printing of the burst page.
.IP \fB\-s\fP 5
Use symbolic links.  Usually files are copied to the spool directory.
.PP 
E 2
The
D 2
.I id
is useful for removing a specific entry from the printer queue using
.IR lprm (1).
E 2
I 2
.B \-C
option takes the following argument as a job classification
for use on the burst page.  For example,
E 2
.PP
D 2
.I Print
.I pr's
a copy of each named file on the line printer.
It is a one line shell script:
E 2
I 2
.ti +0.5i
lpr \-C EECS foo.c
E 2
.PP
D 2
.DT
	pr $* | lpr
E 2
I 2
causes the system name (the name returned by
.IR hostname (1))
to be replaced on the burst page by EECS,
and the file foo.c to be printed.
.PP
The
.B \-J
option takes the following argument as the job name to print on the burst page.
Normally, the first file's name is used.
.PP
The
.B \-T
option uses the next argument as the title used by
.IR pr (1)
instead of the file name.
.PP
To get multiple copies of output, use the
.BI \-# num
option,
where
.I num
is the number of copies desired of each file named.  For example,
.PP
.ti +0.5i
lpr \-#3 foo.c bar.c more.c
.PP
would result in 3 copies of the file foo.c, followed by 3 copies
of the file bar.c, etc.  On the other hand, 
.PP
.ti +0.5i
cat foo.c bar.c more.c | lpr \-#3
.PP
will give three copies of the concatenation of the files.
.PP
The
.B \-i
option causes the output to be indented. If the next argument
is numeric, it is used as the number of blanks to be printed before each
line; otherwise, 8 characters are printed.
.PP
The
.B \-w
option takes the immediately following number to be
the page width for
.IR pr .
.PP
The
.B \-s
option will use
.IR symlink (2)
to link data files rather than trying to copy them so large files can be
printed.  This means the files should
not be modified or removed until they have been printed.
.PP
The option
.B \-1234
Specifies a font to be mounted on font position \fIi\fR.  The daemon
will construct a \fI.railmag\fR file referencing
\fI/usr/lib/vfont/name.size\fR.
E 2
.SH FILES
D 2
.ta 2i
/usr/spool/lpd/*	spool area
.br
/usr/lib/lpd	printer daemon
.br
/usr/lib/lpf	filter to handle banners and underlining
.SH SEE\ ALSO
pr(1)
E 2
I 2
.nf
.ta \w'/usr/spool/*/cf*       'u
/etc/passwd	personal identification
/etc/printcap	printer capabilities data base
/usr/lib/lpd*	line printer daemons
/usr/spool/*	directories used for spooling
/usr/spool/*/cf*	daemon control files
/usr/spool/*/df*	data files specified in "cf" files
/usr/spool/*/tf*	temporary copies of "cf" files
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lpq(1),
lprm(1),
pr(1),
symlink(2),
printcap(5),
lpc(8),
lpd(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If you try to spool too large a file, it will be truncated.
.I Lpr
will object to printing binary files.
If a user other than root prints a file and spooling is disabled,
.I lpr
will print a message saying so and will not put jobs in the queue.
If a connection to
.I lpd
on the local machine cannot be made,
.I lpr
will say that the daemon cannot be started.
Diagnostics may be printed in the daemon's log file
regarding missing spool files by
.IR lpd .
E 2
.SH BUGS
I 2
Fonts for
.I troff
and
.I tex
reside on the host with the printer. It is currently not possible to
use local font libraries.
E 2
E 1
