h59684
s 00003/00001/00131
d D 6.9 04/10/20 23:00:04 msokolov 11 10
c originates from 3BSD, restore credit to William Joy
e
s 00000/00000/00132
d D 6.8 04/10/20 21:31:19 msokolov 10 9
x 9 8
c old man is back!
e
s 00004/00001/00065
d D 6.7 88/04/19 12:17:12 bostic 9 8
c new option, -a, displays all manual pages
e
s 00034/00100/00032
d D 6.6 87/06/30 20:37:18 bostic 8 7
c new manual structure; remove apropos(1), whatis(1), document 
c various environmental variables.
e
s 00001/00001/00131
d D 6.5 86/05/09 08:30:45 anne 7 6
c grammar
e
s 00000/00011/00132
d D 6.4 86/05/05 15:48:35 mckusick 6 5
c -t is gone (sorry Jay)
e
s 00005/00001/00138
d D 6.3 86/03/21 00:26:04 lepreau 5 4
c doc MANPATH
e
s 00011/00000/00128
d D 6.2 85/08/07 18:39:05 mckusick 4 3
c allow systems to maintain only cat? version (from ks@purdue)
e
s 00045/00023/00083
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:35:55 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00007/00009/00099
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:35:41 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00108/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:35:31 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH MAN 1
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH MAN 1 "18 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH MAN 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
D 11
.UC 4
E 11
I 11
.UC 3
E 11
.SH NAME
D 8
man \- find manual information by keywords; print out the manual
E 8
I 8
man \- print out the manual
E 8
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B man
D 3
.B \-k
keyword ...
.br
.B man
.B \-f
file ...
.br
.B man
E 3
[
.B \-
] [
I 9
.B -a
] [
E 9
D 6
.B \-t
] [
E 6
I 3
.B \-M
.I path
] [
E 3
section
]
title ...
I 3
D 8
.br
.B man
.B \-k
keyword ...
.br
.B man
.B \-f
file ...
E 8
E 3
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 8
.I Man
is a program which gives information from the programmers manual.
D 2
It can be asked form one line descriptions of commands specified by
E 2
I 2
It can be asked for one line descriptions of commands specified by
E 2
name, or for all commands whose description contains any of a set of
keywords.  It can also provide on-line access to the sections of the
printed manual.
E 8
I 8
\fIMan\fP is the program which provides on-line access to the UNIX manual.
If a \fIsection\fP specifier is given, \fIman\fP looks in that section of
the manual for the given \fItitle\fP(s).  \fISection\fP is either an Arabic
section number (``3'' for example), or one of the words ``local'', ``new,''
or ``old''.  (The abbreviations ``l'', ``n'', and ``o'' are also allowed.)
If \fIsection\fP is omitted, \fIman\fP searches all sections of the manual,
giving preference to commands over library subroutines, and displays the
D 9
first manual page it finds, if any.
E 9
I 9
first manual page it finds, if any.  If the \fI-a\fP option is supplied,
\fIman\fP displays all applicable manual pages.
E 9
E 8
.PP
D 8
When given the option
.B \-k
and a set of keywords,
.I man
prints out a one line synopsis of each manual sections whose
D 3
listing in the table of contents contains that keyword.
E 3
I 3
listing in the table of contents contains one of those keywords.
E 8
I 8
Normally \fIman\fP checks in standard locations (/usr/man and /usr/local/man)
for manual information.  This can be changed by supplying a search path (a
la the Bourne shell) with the \fB-M\fP flag.  The search path is a colon
(``:'') separated list of directories in which \fIman\fP expects to find
the standard manual subdirectories.  This search path can also be set with
the environmental variable \fIMANPATH\fP.
E 8
E 3
.PP
D 8
When given the option
.B \-f
and a list of file names, \fIman\fR attempts to locate manual
sections related to those files, printing out the table of contents
lines for those sections.
E 8
I 8
Since some manual pages are intended for use only on certain machines,
\fIman\fP only searches those directories applicable to the current
machine.  \fIMan\fP's determination of the current machine type can
be overridden by setting the environmental variable \fIMACHINE\fP.
E 8
.PP
D 8
When neither
.B \-k
nor
.B \-f
is specified,
.I man
formats a specified set of manual pages.
If a section specifier is given
.I man
looks in the that section of the manual for the given
.I titles.
.I Section
D 2
is an arabic section number, i.e. 3,
which may be followed by a single letter classifier, i.e. 1g
indicating a graphics program in section 1.
If
E 2
I 2
D 3
is an Arabic section number (3 for instance).  The number may followed by
a single letter classifier (1g for instance)
indicating a graphics program in section 1.  If
E 3
I 3
is either
an Arabic section number (3 for instance), or one of the words ``new,''
``local,'' ``old,'' or ``public.''
D 7
A section number may followed by
E 7
I 7
A section number may be followed by
E 7
a single letter classifier (for instance, 1g,
indicating a graphics program in section 1).  If
E 3
E 2
.I section
is omitted,
.I man
searches all sections of the manual, giving preference to commands
over subroutines in system libraries, and printing the first section
it finds, if any.
E 8
I 8
If the standard output is a teletype, and the \fB-\fP flag is not provided,
\fIman\fP uses \fImore\fP(1), or the pager provided by the environmental
variable \fIPAGER\fP, to display the manual page.
E 8
.PP
D 8
If the standard output is a teletype, or if the flag
.B \-
D 2
is given, then
E 2
I 2
is given,
E 2
.I man
pipes its output through
D 3
.IR cat (1)
E 3
I 3
.IR more (1)
E 3
with the option
.B \-s
D 3
to crush out useless blank lines,
.IR ul (1)
D 2
to create proper underlines for different terminals,
and through
E 2
I 2
to create proper underlines for different terminals, and through
E 2
.IR more (1)
to stop after each page on the screen.
E 3
I 3
to crush out useless blank lines
and to stop after each page on the screen.
E 3
Hit a space to continue,
a control-D to scroll 11 more lines when the output stops.
D 6
.PP
The
.B \-t
flag causes
.I man
to arrange for the specified section to be
.I troff'ed
to a suitable raster output device; see
.IR vtroff (1).
E 6
I 3
.PP
Normally
.I man
checks in a standard location for manual
information (/usr/man).  This can be changed by supplying a search
path (a la the shell) with the
.B \-M
flag.  The search path is a colon (`:') separated list
of directories in which manual subdirectories may be found;
D 5
e.g. ``/usr/local:/usr/man''.  If a search path is supplied
E 5
I 5
e.g. ``/usr/local:/usr/man''.  
.hw MANPATH
If the environment variable `MANPATH' is set,
its value is used for the default path.
If a search path is supplied
E 5
with the 
.B \-k
or
.B \-f
options, it must be specified first.
I 4
.PP
.I Man
will look for the manual page in either of two forms, the nroff source or
preformatted pages.
If either version is available, the manual page will be displayed.
If the preformatted version is available, and it has a more recent modify
time than the nroff source,  it will be promptly displayed.
Otherwise, the manual page will be formatted with nroff and displayed.
If the user has permission, the formatted manual page will be deposited
in the proper place, so that later invocations of man will not need to
format the page again.
E 8
I 8
The FORTRAN version of section 3 of the manual may be specified by supplying
\fIman\fP with the \fIsection\fP ``3f''.  Also, a specific section of the
local manual may be specified by appending a number to the \fIsection\fP,
i.e. ``l5'' would indicate section 5 of the local manual.
E 8
E 4
E 3
.SH FILES
D 3
/usr/man/man?/*
.br
/usr/man/cat?/*
E 3
I 3
.nf
D 8
.ta \w'/usr/man/man?/*   'u
E 8
I 8
.ta \w'/usr/local/man/man?/*   'u
E 8
/usr/man	standard manual area
D 8
/usr/man/man?/*	directories containing source for manuals
/usr/man/cat?/*	directories containing preformatted pages
/usr/man/whatis	keyword database
E 8
I 8
/usr/man/cat?/*	directories containing standard manual pages
/usr/local/man/cat?/*	directories containing local manual pages
/usr/src/man	directories containing unformatted manual pages
E 8
.fi
E 3
.SH SEE\ ALSO
D 3
more(1), ul(1), whereis(1), catman(8)
E 3
I 3
D 8
apropos(1), more(1), whereis(1), catman(8)
E 8
I 8
apropos(1), more(1), whatis(1), whereis(1)
E 8
E 3
.SH BUGS
D 8
The manual is supposed to be reproducible either on the phototypesetter
or on a typewriter.
However, on a typewriter some information is necessarily lost.
I 11
.SH AUTHOR
William Joy
E 11
E 8
I 8
The manual is supposed to be reproducible either on the
phototypesetter or on a typewriter, however, on a typewriter,
some information is necessarily lost.
E 8
E 1
