h24251
s 00010/00005/00030
d D 6.3 88/07/09 11:45:01 bostic 5 4
c install approved copyright notice
e
s 00016/00018/00019
d D 6.2 87/11/24 18:02:06 bostic 4 3
c change diagnostics to indicate reality
e
s 00001/00001/00036
d D 6.1 85/04/29 17:50:17 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00005/00003/00032
d D 5.1 85/04/29 17:50:08 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00035/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 17:49:59 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1987 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
D 5
.\" provided that this notice is preserved and that due credit is given
.\" to the University of California at Berkeley. The name of the University
.\" may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" software without specific written prior permission. This software
.\" is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
E 5
I 5
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
E 5
.\"
E 4
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH MESG 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH MESG 1 "18 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH MESG 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
mesg \- permit or deny messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mesg
[
.B n
] [
.B y
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 4
.I Mesg
with argument
.B n
forbids messages via
D 2
.IR  write (1)
E 2
I 2
.I  write
and
.IR talk (1)
E 2
by revoking non-user
write permission on the user's terminal.
.I Mesg
with argument
.B y
reinstates permission.
All by itself,
.I mesg
reports the current state without changing it.
E 4
I 4
\fIMesg\fP with argument \fBn\fP forbids messages via \fIwrite\fP
and \fItalk\fP by revoking non-user write permission on the user's
terminal.  \fIMesg\fP with argument \fBy\fP reinstates permission.
\fIMesg\fP without arguments reports the current state without
changing it.
E 4
.SH FILES
/dev/tty*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
write(1)
E 2
I 2
write(1), talk(1)
E 2
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
D 4
Exit status is 0 if messages are receivable,
1 if not, 2 on error.
E 4
I 4
Exit status is 0 if messages are receivable, 1 if not, -1 on error.
E 4
E 1
