h14762
s 00002/00002/00086
d D 6.2 86/05/09 08:41:22 anne 4 3
c grammar
e
s 00001/00001/00087
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:38:25 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00059/00029/00029
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:38:14 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00058/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:38:05 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH MT 1 5/11/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH MT 1 "1 April 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH MT 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
mt \- magnetic tape manipulating program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mt
[
D 2
.B \-t
E 2
I 2
.B \-f
E 2
.I tapename
]
.I command
[
.I count
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
.PP
E 2
.I Mt
D 2
is used to give commands to the tape drive.  If a tape name is not
specified, /dev/rmt12 is used.  If a count is not specified, 1 is assumed.
E 2
I 2
is used to give commands to a magnetic tape drive.
If a tape name is not specified, the environment variable
TAPE is used;  if TAPE does not exist,
.I mt
uses the device
.IR /dev/rmt12 .
Note
that
.I tapename
must reference a raw (not block) tape device.
By default
.I mt
performs the requested operation once.  Operations
may be performed multiple times by specifying
.IR count .
E 2
.PP
D 2
Here are the commands:
.in +.5i
.BR eof "	write"
E 2
I 2
The available commands are listed below.  Only as many
characters as are required to uniquely identify a command
need be specified.
.TP
.BR eof , " weof"
Write 
E 2
.I count
D 2
end-of-file marks
.br
.BR fsf "	space forward"
E 2
I 2
end-of-file marks at the current position on the tape.
.TP
.B fsf
Forward space
E 2
.I count
D 2
files
.br
.BR fsr "	space forward"
E 2
I 2
files.
.TP
.B fsr
Forward space 
E 2
.I count
D 2
records
.br
.BR bsf "	space backward"
E 2
I 2
records.
.TP
.B bsf
Back space 
E 2
.I count
D 2
files
.br
.BR bsr "	space backward"
E 2
I 2
files.
.TP 
.B bsr
Back space
E 2
.I count
D 2
records
.br
.BR rew "	rewind tape"
.br
.BR offl "	rewind tape and go offline:
.in -.5i
E 2
I 2
records.
.TP
.B rewind
Rewind the tape
.RI ( Count
D 4
is ignored.)
E 4
I 4
is ignored). 
E 4
.TP
.BR offline , " rewoffl"
Rewind the tape and place the tape unit off-line
.RI ( Count
D 4
is ignored.)
E 4
I 4
is ignored).
E 4
.TP
.B status
Print status information about the tape unit.
.PP
.I Mt
returns a 0 exit status when the operation(s) were successful,
1 if the command was unrecognized, and 2 if an operation failed.
E 2
.SH FILES
.DT
/dev/rmt*	Raw magnetic tape interface
D 2
.SH SEE ALSO
mt(4), dd(1)
.SH BUGS
E 2
I 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mtio(4), dd(1), ioctl(2), environ(7)
E 2
E 1
