h14051
s 00001/00001/00088
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:38:50 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00010/00022/00079
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:38:42 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00101/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:38:34 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH MV 1 4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH MV 1 "1 April 1981"
E 3
I 3
.TH MV 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
mv \- move or rename files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mv
[
.B \-i
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-
] file1 file2
.PP
.B mv
[
.B \-i
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-
] file ... directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mv
moves (changes the name of)
.I file1
to
.IR file2 .
.PP
If
.I file2
D 2
already exists,
it is removed before
E 2
I 2
already exists, it is removed before
E 2
.I file1
D 2
is moved.
If
E 2
I 2
is moved.  If
E 2
.I file2
has a mode which forbids writing,
.I mv
prints the mode (see
.IR chmod (2))
D 2
and
reads the standard input to obtain a line;
if the line begins with
E 2
I 2
and reads the standard input to obtain a line; if the line begins with
E 2
.B y,
D 2
the move takes place;
if not,
E 2
I 2
the move takes place; if not,
E 2
.I mv
exits.
.PP
D 2
In the second form,
one or more
E 2
I 2
In the second form, one or more
E 2
.I files
D 2
are moved to the
E 2
I 2
(plain files or directories) are moved to the
E 2
.I directory
D 2
with their original
file-names.
E 2
I 2
with their original file-names.
E 2
.PP
.I Mv
refuses to move a file onto itself.
.PP
Options:
.TP
.B \-i
stands for interactive mode. Whenever a move is to supercede an
existing file, the user is prompted by the name of the file
followed by a question mark. If he answers with a line starting
with 'y', the move continues. Any other reply prevents the move from
occurring.
.TP
.B \-f
stands for force. This option overrides any mode restrictions or the
\-i switch.
.TP
.B \-
means interpret all the following arguments to 
.I mv
as file names.  This allows file names starting with minus.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cp(1), ln(1)
.SH BUGS
If
.I file1
and
.I file2
lie on different file systems,
.I mv
must copy the file and delete the original.
D 2
In this case the owner name becomes
that of the copying process and any
linking relationship with other files
is lost.
.PP
Directories may only be moved within the same parent
directory.
E 2
I 2
In this case the owner name becomes that of the copying process and any
linking relationship with other files is lost.
E 2
E 1
