h43368
s 00008/00002/00227
d D 6.7 88/05/14 10:23:36 karels 8 7
c add -d
e
s 00023/00000/00206
d D 6.6 86/08/11 12:21:59 kupfer 7 6
c -p is now implemented.
e
s 00095/00065/00111
d D 6.5 86/05/08 15:09:09 karels 6 5
c update for 4.3
e
s 00004/00003/00172
d D 6.4 85/12/08 16:55:47 mckusick 5 4
c format glitches
e
s 00016/00000/00159
d D 6.3 85/08/16 23:14:54 sklower 4 3
c document -f flag, limiting reporting of statistics to a single address family;
c suggested by mkm.
e
s 00004/00000/00155
d D 6.2 85/04/30 20:59:54 kupfer 3 2
c Note that -p isn't implemented yet.
e
s 00011/00004/00144
d D 6.1 85/04/29 21:12:39 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00148/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/04/29 21:12:26 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH NETSTAT 1 "18 October 1982"
E 2
I 2
.TH NETSTAT 1 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
netstat \- show network status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B netstat
[ 
D 6
.B \-Aahimnrs
E 6
I 6
.B \-Aan
E 6
] [
I 4
.B \-f
.I address_family
] [
E 4
I 2
D 6
.B \-I
.I interface
E 6
I 6
.I system
E 6
] [
E 2
D 6
.B \-p
D 2
.I protocol 
E 2
I 2
.I protocol
E 6
I 6
.I core
]
.br
.B netstat
[ 
.B \-himnrs
E 6
E 2
] [
D 2
.B \-a
] [
E 2
D 6
.I interval
E 6
I 6
.B \-f
.I address_family
E 6
] [
.I system
] [
.I core
]
I 6
.br
.B netstat
[ 
.B \-n
] [
.B \-I
.I interface
]
.I interval
[
.I system
] [
.I core
]
I 7
.br
.B netstat
[ 
.B \-p
.I protocol
] [
.I system
] [
.I core
]
E 7
E 6
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I netstat 
command symbolically displays the contents of various network-related
D 6
data structures.  The options have the following meaning:
E 6
I 6
data structures.
There are a number of output formats,
depending on the options for the information presented.
The first form of the command displays a list of active sockets for
each protocol.
The second form presents the contents of one of the other network
data structures according to the option selected.
Using the third form, with an 
.I interval
specified,
.I netstat
will continuously display the information regarding packet
traffic on the configured network interfaces.
I 7
The fourth form displays statistics about the named protocol.
E 7
.PP
The options have the following meaning:
E 6
.TP 
.B \-A
D 6
show the address of any associated protocol control blocks; used
for debugging
E 6
I 6
With the default display,
show the address of any protocol control blocks associated with sockets; used
for debugging.
E 6
.TP
.B \-a
I 6
With the default display,
E 6
show the state of all sockets; normally sockets used by
D 6
server processes are not shown
E 6
I 6
server processes are not shown.
I 8
.B \-d
With either interface display (option
.B \-i
or an interval, as described below),
show the number of dropped packets.
E 8
E 6
.TP
.B \-h
D 6
show the state of the IMP host table
E 6
I 6
Show the state of the IMP host table.
E 6
.TP
.B \-i
D 6
show the state of interfaces which have been auto-configured
E 6
I 6
Show the state of interfaces which have been auto-configured
E 6
(interfaces statically configured into a system, but not
D 6
located at boot time are not shown)
E 6
I 6
located at boot time are not shown).
E 6
I 2
.TP
.BI \-I " interface"
D 6
show information only about this interface
(see also
E 6
I 6
Show information only about this interface;
used with an
E 6
.I interval
D 6
below)
E 6
I 6
as described below.
E 6
E 2
.TP
.B \-m
D 6
show statistics recorded by the memory management routines
(the network manages a ``private share'' of memory)
E 6
I 6
Show statistics recorded by the memory management routines
(the network manages a private pool of memory buffers).
E 6
.TP
.B \-n
D 6
show network addresses as numbers (normally 
E 6
I 6
Show network addresses as numbers (normally 
E 6
.I netstat
interprets addresses and attempts to display them
D 6
symbolically)
E 6
I 6
symbolically).
This option may be used with any of the display formats.
I 7
.TP
.BI \-p " protocol"
Show statistics about 
.IR protocol ,
which is either a well-known name for a protocol or an alias for it.  Some
protocol names and aliases are listed in the file 
.IR /etc/protocols .
A null response typically means that there are no interesting numbers to 
report.
The program will complain if
.I protocol
is unknown or if there is no statistics routine for it.
E 7
E 6
.TP
D 6
.BI \-p " proto"
show the state of sockets utilizing protocol
.IR proto ;
the protocol is specified symbolically, and may be any
protocol listed in the file
.IR /etc/protocols .
.TP
E 6
.B \-s
D 6
show per-protocol statistics
E 6
I 6
Show per-protocol statistics.
E 6
.TP
.B \-r
D 6
show the routing tables
E 6
I 6
Show the routing tables.
When
.B \-s
is also present, show routing statistics instead.
E 6
I 4
.TP
.BI \-f " address_family"
D 6
will limit statistics or address control block reports to those
E 6
I 6
Limit statistics or address control block reports to those
E 6
of the specified
.IR address\ family .
D 6
The two address families
E 6
I 6
The following address families
are recognized:
E 6
.IR inet ,
for
D 5
.BR AF_INET and
E 5
I 5
D 6
.B AF_INET
and
E 6
I 6
.BR AF_INET ,
E 6
E 5
.IR ns ,
for
D 5
.BR AF_NS are
recognized.
E 5
I 5
D 6
.B AF_NS
are recognized.
E 6
I 6
.BR AF_NS ,
and
.IR unix ,
for
.BR AF_UNIX .
E 6
E 5
E 4
.PP
The arguments, 
.I system
and
.I core
allow substitutes for the defaults ``/vmunix'' and ``/dev/kmem''.
.PP
D 6
If an 
.I interval
is specified,
.I netstat
will continuously display the information regarding packet
traffic on the configured network interfaces, pausing
.I interval
seconds before refreshing the screen.
.PP
There are a number of display formats, depending on the information
presented.  The default display, for active sockets, shows the local
E 6
I 6
The default display, for active sockets, shows the local
E 6
and remote addresses, send and receive queue sizes (in bytes), protocol,
D 6
and, optionally, the internal state of the protocol.
.PP
E 6
I 6
and the internal state of the protocol.
E 6
Address formats are of the form ``host.port'' or ``network.port''
if a socket's address specifies a network but no specific host address.
When known the host and network addresses are displayed symbolically
according to the data bases
.I /etc/hosts
and
.IR /etc/networks ,
respectively.  If a symbolic name for an address is unknown, or if
the 
.B \-n
D 6
option is specified, the address is printed in the Internet ``dot format'';
E 6
I 6
option is specified, the address is printed numerically, according
to the address family.
For more information regarding 
the Internet ``dot format,''
E 6
refer to 
D 6
.IR inet (3N)
for more information regarding this format.
E 6
I 6
.IR inet (3N).
E 6
Unspecified,
or ``wildcard'', addresses and ports appear as ``*''.  
.PP
The interface display provides a table of cumulative
statistics regarding packets transferred, errors, and collisions.
D 6
The network address (currently Internet specific) of the interface
E 6
I 6
The network addresses of the interface
E 6
and the maximum transmission unit (``mtu'') are also displayed.
.PP
The routing table display indicates the available routes and
their status.  Each route consists of a destination host or network
and a gateway to use in forwarding packets.  The flags field shows
D 6
the state of the route (``U'' if ``up''), and whether the route
is to a gateway (``G'').  Direct routes are created for each
interface attached to the local host.  The refcnt field gives the
E 6
I 6
the state of the route (``U'' if ``up''), whether the route
D 8
is to a gateway (``G''), and whether the route was created dynamically
by a redirect (``D'').  Direct routes are created for each
E 8
I 8
is to a gateway (``G''), whether the route was created dynamically
by a redirect (``D''), and whether the route has been modified
by a redirect (``M'').  Direct routes are created for each
E 8
interface attached to the local host;
the gateway field for such entries shows the address of the outgoing interface.
The refcnt field gives the
E 6
current number of active uses of the route.  Connection oriented
protocols normally hold on to a single route for the duration of
D 6
a connection while connectionless protocols obtain a route then
discard it.  The use field provides a count of the number of packets
E 6
I 6
a connection while connectionless protocols obtain a route while sending
to the same destination.
The use field provides a count of the number of packets
E 6
sent using that route.  The interface entry indicates the network
interface utilized for the route.
.PP
When 
.I netstat
is invoked with an
.I interval
argument, it displays a running count of statistics related to
D 6
network interfaces.  This display consists of a column summarizing
information for all interfaces, and a column for the interface with
the most traffic since the system was last rebooted.  The first
line of each screen of information contains a summary since the
E 6
I 6
network interfaces.  This display consists of a
column for the primary interface
(the first interface found during autoconfiguration)
and a column summarizing
information for all interfaces.
The primary interface may be replaced with another interface with the
.I \-I
option.
The first line of each screen of information contains a summary since the
E 6
system was last rebooted.  Subsequent lines of output show values
accumulated over the preceding interval.
.SH SEE ALSO
iostat(1),
vmstat(1),
hosts(5),
networks(5),
protocols(5),
services(5),
trpt(8C)
.SH BUGS
The notion of errors is ill-defined.  Collisions mean
something else for the IMP.
I 3
D 6
.PP
The 
.B \-p 
option is not yet implemented.
E 6
E 3
E 1
