h64855
s 00006/00003/00074
d D 6.1 85/04/29 14:40:10 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00007/00020/00070
d D 5.1 85/04/29 14:40:01 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00090/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 14:39:52 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH NM 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH NM 1 "7 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH NM 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
nm \- print name list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nm
[
D 2
.B \-agnopru
E 2
I 2
D 3
.B \-gnopru
E 3
I 3
.B \-agnopru
E 3
E 2
]
[ file ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nm
prints the name list (symbol table) of each object
.I file
D 2
in the argument list.
If an argument
is an archive, a listing for each object
file in the archive will be produced.
If no
E 2
I 2
in the argument list.  If an argument is an archive, a listing for each object
file in the archive will be produced.  If no
E 2
.I file
D 2
is given, the symbols in
`a.out'
are listed.
E 2
I 2
is given, the symbols in "a.out" are listed.
E 2
.PP
Each symbol name is preceded by its value (blanks if undefined)
and one of the letters
.SM
.B U
(undefined),
.SM
.B A
(absolute),
.SM
.B  T
(text segment symbol),
.SM
.B D
(data segment symbol),
.SM
.B B
(bss segment symbol),
.SM
.B C
(common symbol),
.SM
.B f
file name,
or
.B \-
D 3
for sdb symbol table entries (see
E 3
I 3
for debugger symbol table entries (see
E 3
.B \-a
below).
D 2
If the symbol is local (non-external) the type letter is in
lower case.
E 2
I 2
If the symbol is local (non-external) the type letter is in lower case.
E 2
The output is sorted alphabetically.
.PP
Options are:
I 3
.TP
.B  \-a
Print symbol table entries inserted for use by debuggers.
E 3
.TP
D 2
.B \-a
Include all symbols in candidates for printing; normally
symbols destined for
.IR sdb (1)
are excluded.
.TP
E 2
.B  \-g
Print only global (external) symbols.
.TP
.B \-n
Sort numerically rather than alphabetically.
.TP
.B  \-o
D 2
Prepend file or archive element name to each
output line rather than only once.
E 2
I 2
Prepend file or archive element name to each output line rather than only once.
E 2
.TP
.B  \-p
Don't sort; print in symbol-table order.
.TP
.B  \-r
Sort in reverse order.
.TP
.B  \-u
Print only undefined symbols.
.SH SEE ALSO
ar(1), ar(5), a.out(5), stab(5)
E 1
