h57825
s 00002/00007/00063
d D 6.2 04/10/30 04:16:10 msokolov 2 1
c we are no longer raping Symbol, just fixing the radical metrics
c remove the BUGS note since it's fixed!
e
s 00070/00000/00000
d D 6.1 04/09/16 22:40:13 msokolov 1 0
c date and time created 04/09/16 22:40:13 by msokolov
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.TH PREPPSFONT 1 "%Q%"
.UC 8
.SH NAME
preppsfont \- prepare PostScript fonts for pstroff
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B preppsfont
[ \fB\-r\fP ] [ \fB\-s\fP ] afmfile fn
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Preppsfont
prepares the PostScript font described by the Adobe Font Metrics file
.I afmfile
for use with
.IR pstroff (1).
It generates a simple
binary file with 256 character widths for the font as it will be used, and a
text file with PostScript code that will fetch the font, make any
desired modifications to it, and leave the font dictionary on the
operand stack.
These files are generated in the current directory, which should be
.B /usr/lib/pstroff
to install the font system-wide.
.PP
.I fn
is the one or two character name by which the font will be known in
.IR pstroff (1).
The generated width and setup files are named
.BI fw fn
and
.BI fs fn
respectively.
.PP
The
.B \-r
option indicates that the font is a Roman font and should be recoded to
\%\fBTroffEncoding\fP.
All Roman fonts must be prepared with this option to use the full
character set described in the
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option should be used to prepare the Symbol font.
D 2
This adds code to the setup file to extend the Symbol font with a few
extra line drawing characters (documented in the
\fINroff/Troff user's manual\fP) and to change the metrics of the
E 2
I 2
This adds code to the setup file
to change the metrics of the
E 2
.I radical
and
.I radicalex
characters to make them more useful.
The width file is adjusted accordingly as well.
.SH FILES
.ta 5n +\w'TroffEncoding.ps  'u
/usr/lib/pstroff/	directory containing:
.br
	fw*	font width tables
.br
	fs*	font setup files
.br
	TroffEncoding.ps	encoding vector for Roman fonts
D 2
.br
	Symbolextend.ps	code to extend the Symbol font
E 2
.SH SEE ALSO
J. F. Ossanna,
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual
.br
pstroff(1)
D 2
.SH BUGS
Too much tweaking is applied to the standard fonts.
E 2
E 1
