h56826
s 00019/00003/00032
d D 6.2 85/05/03 20:32:48 mckusick 4 3
c add -t option (arnold@ucsfcgl)
e
s 00001/00001/00034
d D 6.1 85/04/29 17:52:24 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00016/00021/00019
d D 5.1 85/04/29 17:52:13 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00040/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 17:52:05 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH RANLIB 1
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH RANLIB 1 "8 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH RANLIB 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
ranlib \- convert archives to random libraries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ranlib
D 4
archive ...
E 4
I 4
[
.B \-t
] archive ...
E 4
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ranlib
converts each
.I archive
D 2
to a form which can be loaded
more rapidly by the loader,
by adding a table of contents named
.B _\^_.SYMDEF
E 2
I 2
to a form which the loader can load more rapidly.
.I Ranlib
does this by adding a table of contents called 
D 4
.B _.SYMDEF
E 4
I 4
.B __.SYMDEF
E 4
E 2
to the beginning of the archive.
D 2
It uses
E 2
I 2
.I Ranlib
uses 
E 2
.IR ar (1)
D 2
to reconstruct the archive,
so that sufficient temporary file space must
be available in the file system containing the
current directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
E 2
I 2
to reconstruct the archive, so that sufficient temporary file space must
be available in the file system which contains the current directory.
I 4
.PP
If given the
.B \-t
option,
ranlib only "touches" the archives and does not modify them.
This is useful after copying an archive
or using the
.B \-t
option of
.IR make (1)
in order to avoid having
.IR ld (1)
complain about
an \*(lqout of date\*(rq symbol table.
E 4
.SH "SEE ALSO"
E 2
D 4
ld(1), ar(1), lorder(1)
E 4
I 4
ld(1), ar(1), lorder(1), make(1)
E 4
.SH BUGS
Because generation of a library by
.I ar
D 2
and randomization by
E 2
I 2
and randomization of the library by
E 2
.I ranlib
D 2
are separate,
phase errors are possible.
The loader
.I ld
warns when the modification date of
a library is more recent than
the creation of its dictionary;
but this means you get the warning even if you
only copy the library.
E 2
I 2
are separate processes, phase errors are possible.  The loader,
.IR ld ,
warns when the modification date of a library is more recent than the
creation date of its dictionary;  but this means that you get the
warning even if you only copy the library.
E 2
E 1
