h35941
s 00001/00001/00264
d D 6.2 86/05/12 09:03:16 anne 4 3
c grammar
e
s 00002/00002/00263
d D 6.1 85/04/29 20:11:25 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00171/00070/00094
d D 5.1 85/04/29 20:10:57 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00164/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 20:10:36 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH REFER 1 4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH REFER 1 "18 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH REFER 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
D 2
refer, lookbib \- find and insert literature references in documents
E 2
I 2
refer \- find and insert literature references in documents
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B refer
D 2
[ option ] ...
.PP
.B lookbib
[ file ] ...
E 2
I 2
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-b
] [
.B \-c
] [
.B \-e
] [
.BI \-f n
] [
.BI \-k x
] [
.BI \-l m,n
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-p
bib
] [
.BI \-s keys
] [
.BI \-B l.m
] [
.B \-P
] [
.B \-S
] [ file ... ]
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
.I Lookbib
accepts keywords from the standard input 
and searches a bibliographic data base for references
that contain those keywords anywhere in title, author,
journal name, etc.
Matching references are printed on the standard output.
Blank lines are taken as delimiters between queries.
.PP
E 2
.I Refer
is a preprocessor for
.I nroff
or
.IR troff (1)
D 2
that finds and formats references.
The input files (standard input default) are copied to the standard output,
except for lines between .[ and .]
command lines, which are assumed to contain keywords as for
.I lookbib,
and are replaced by information from the bibliographic data base.
The user may avoid the search, override fields from it, or
add new fields.
E 2
I 2
that finds and formats references for footnotes or endnotes.
It is also the base for a series of programs designed to
index, search, sort, and print stand-alone bibliographies,
or other data entered in the appropriate form.
.PP
Given an incomplete citation with sufficiently precise keywords,
.I refer
will search a bibliographic database for references
containing these keywords anywhere in the title, author, journal, etc.
The input file (or standard input)
is copied to standard output,
except for lines between .[ and .] delimiters,
which are assumed to contain keywords,
and are replaced by information from the bibliographic database.
The user may also search different databases,
override particular fields, or add new fields.
E 2
The reference data, from whatever source, are assigned to a set of
.I troff
strings.
Macro packages such as
.IR ms (7)
print the finished reference text from these strings.
D 2
A flag is placed in the text at the point of reference;
by default the references are indicated by numbers.
.br
.sp
E 2
I 2
By default references are flagged by footnote numbers.
.PP
E 2
The following options are available:
.TP 6
D 3
.BI \-a r
E 3
I 3
.BI \-a n
E 3
Reverse the first
D 2
.I r
E 2
I 2
.I n
E 2
author names (Jones, J. A. instead of J. A. Jones).
If
D 2
.I r
E 2
I 2
.I n
E 2
is omitted all author names are reversed.
.ns
.TP
.B \-b
Bare mode: do not put any flags in text (neither numbers nor labels).
.ns
.TP
D 2
.BI \-c string
E 2
I 2
.BI \-c keys
E 2
Capitalize (with C\s-2APS\s0 S\s-2MALL\s+2 C\s-2APS\s0)
the fields whose key-letters are in
D 2
.IR string .
E 2
I 2
.IR keys .
E 2
.ns
.TP
.B \-e
Instead of leaving the references where encountered,
D 2
accumulate them
until a sequence of the form
E 2
I 2
accumulate them until a sequence of the form
E 2
.nf
D 2
		.[
		$LIST$
		.]
E 2
I 2
	.[
	$LIST$
	.]
E 2
.fi
D 2
is encountered, and then write out all references
collected so far.  Collapse references to the same source.
E 2
I 2
is encountered, and then write out all references collected so far.
Collapse references to same source.
E 2
.ns
.TP
I 2
.BI \-f n
Set the footnote number to
.I n
instead of the default of 1 (one).
With labels rather than numbers,
this flag is a no-op.
.ns
.TP
E 2
.BI \-k x
D 2
Instead of numbering references, use labels as specified in
a
reference data line
beginning
E 2
I 2
Instead of numbering references, use labels as specified in a
reference data line beginning
E 2
.I %x;
D 2
by default 
E 2
I 2
by default
E 2
.I x
is
.B L.
.ns
.TP
.BI \-l m , n
Instead of numbering references, use labels made from
the senior author's last name and the year of publication.
Only the first
.I m
letters of the last name
and the last
.I n
digits of the date are used.
If either
.I m
or
D 2
.BI , n
E 2
I 2
.I n
E 2
is omitted the entire name or date respectively is used.
.ns
.TP
D 2
.B \-p
Take the next argument as a file of
references to be searched.
The default file is searched last.
E 2
I 2
.B \-n
Do not search the default file /usr/dict/papers/Ind.
If there is a REFER environment variable,
the specified file will be searched instead of the default file;
in this case the
.B \-n
flag has no effect.
E 2
.ns
.TP
D 2
.B \-n
Do not search the default file.
E 2
I 2
.BI \-p \0bib
Take the next argument
.I bib
as a file of references to be searched.
The default file is searched last.
E 2
.ns
.TP
.BI \-s keys
D 2
Sort references by fields whose key-letters are in
the
E 2
I 2
Sort references by fields whose key-letters are in the
E 2
.I keys
string;
D 2
permute
reference numbers in text accordingly.
E 2
I 2
permute reference numbers in text accordingly.
E 2
Implies
.BR \-e .
The key-letters in
.I keys
may be followed by a number to indicate how many such fields
are used, with
.B +
taken as a very large number.
The default is
.B AD
which sorts on the senior author and then date; to sort, for example,
D 4
on all authors and then title use
E 4
I 4
on all authors and then title, use
E 4
.BR -sA+T .
I 2
.ns
.TP
.BI \-B l.m
Bibliography mode.
Take a file composed of records separated by blank lines,
and turn them into
.I troff
input.
Label
.I l
will be turned into the macro
.I .m
with
.I l
defaulting to
.B %X
and
.I .m
defaulting to
.B .AP
(annotation paragraph).
.ns
.TP
.B \-P
Place punctuation marks .,:;?! after the reference signal,
rather than before.
(Periods and commas used to be done with strings.)
.ns
.TP
.B \-S
Produce references in the Natural or Social Science format.
E 2
.PP
D 2
.\"To use your own references, put them in the format
.\"described in
.\".IR pubindex (1)
.\"They can be searched
.\"more rapidly by running
.\".IR pubindex (1)
.\"on them before using
.\".I refer;
.\"failure to index results in a linear search.
.PP
E 2
I 2
To use your own references,
put them in the format described below.
They can be searched more rapidly by running
.IR indxbib (1)
on them before using
.I refer;
failure to index results in a linear search.
E 2
When
.I refer
D 2
is used with
E 2
I 2
is used with the
E 2
.I eqn,
.I neqn
or
D 2
.I tbl,
E 2
I 2
.I tbl
preprocessors
E 2
.I refer
should be first, to minimize the volume
D 2
of data passed through
pipes.
E 2
I 2
of data passed through pipes.
.PP
The
.I refer
preprocessor and associated programs
expect input from a file of references
composed of records separated by blank lines.
A record is a set of lines (fields),
each containing one kind of information.
Fields start on a line beginning with a ``%'',
followed by a key-letter, then a blank,
and finally the contents of the field,
and continue until the next line starting with ``%''.
The output ordering and formatting of fields
is controlled by the macros specified for
.I nroff/troff
(for footnotes and endnotes) or
.I roffbib
(for stand-alone bibliographies).
For a list of the most common key-letters
and their corresponding fields, see
.IR addbib (1).
An example of a
.I refer
entry is given below.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
%A	M. E. Lesk
%T	Some Applications of Inverted Indexes on the \s-1UNIX\s0 System
%B	\s-1UNIX\s0 Programmer's Manual
%V	2b
%I	Bell Laboratories
%C	Murray Hill, NJ
%D	1978
.fi
E 2
.SH FILES
D 2
.ta 1.5i
/usr/dict/papers	directory of default publication lists and indexes
E 2
I 2
.ta \w'/usr/dict/papers\0\0'u
/usr/dict/papers	directory of default publication lists
E 2
.br
D 2
/usr/lib/refer	directory of programs
E 2
I 2
/usr/lib/refer  	directory of companion programs
E 2
.SH SEE ALSO
I 2
addbib(1), sortbib(1), roffbib(1), indxbib(1), lookbib(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Mike Lesk
.SH BUGS
Blank spaces at the end of lines in bibliography fields
will cause the records to sort and reverse incorrectly.
Sorting large numbers of references causes a core dump.
E 2
E 1
