h29710
s 00000/00000/00092
d D 6.8 86/05/12 09:05:01 anne 9 8
c 
e
s 00006/00003/00086
d D 6.7 86/05/12 01:38:12 karels 8 7
c mention window sizes
e
s 00003/00002/00086
d D 6.6 86/05/11 06:00:02 lepreau 7 6
c partity bits aren't always stripped w/o -8
e
s 00001/00001/00087
d D 6.5 86/05/05 15:57:01 bloom 6 5
c fix bugs section
e
s 00001/00001/00087
d D 6.4 86/01/09 13:20:31 mckusick 5 4
c .rhosts file make be a symbolic link
e
s 00000/00008/00088
d D 6.3 85/10/30 16:14:00 bloom 4 3
c -w flag no longer needed
e
s 00015/00000/00081
d D 6.2 85/10/08 19:10:34 bloom 3 2
c add -w and -L
e
s 00016/00002/00065
d D 6.1 85/04/29 21:14:35 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00067/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/04/29 21:14:26 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
f b 
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH RLOGIN 1C "10 February 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH RLOGIN 1C "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
rlogin \- remote login
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rlogin
rhost [
\fB\-e\fR\fI\|c\fR
] [
I 2
.B \-8
] [
I 3
.B \-L
] [
D 4
.B \-w
] [
E 4
E 3
E 2
.B \-l
username ]
.br
rhost [
\fB\-e\fR\fIc\fR
] [
I 2
.B \-8
] [
I 3
.B \-L
] [
D 4
.B \-w
] [
E 4
E 3
E 2
.B \-l
username ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rlogin
connects your terminal on the current local host system
.I lhost
to the remote host system
.I rhost.
.PP
Each host has a file
.I /etc/hosts.equiv
which contains a list of \fIrhost\fR's with which it shares account names.
(The host names must be the standard names as described in
.IR rsh (1C).)
When you
.I rlogin
as the same user on an equivalent host, you don't need
to give a password.
Each user may also have a private equivalence list in a file \&.rhosts
D 8
in his login directory.  Each line in this file should contain a \fIrhost\fP
E 8
I 8
in his login directory.  Each line in this file should contain an \fIrhost\fP
E 8
and a \fIusername\fP separated by a space, giving additional cases
where logins without passwords are to be permitted.
If the originating user is not equivalent to the remote user, then
a login and password will be prompted for on the remote machine as in
.IR login (1).
To avoid some security problems, the \&.rhosts file must be owned by
D 5
either the remote user or root and may not be a symbolic link.
E 5
I 5
either the remote user or root.
E 5
.PP
D 8
Your remote terminal type is the same as your local
E 8
I 8
The remote terminal type is the same as your local
E 8
terminal type (as given in your environment TERM variable).
I 8
The terminal or window size is also copied to the remote system
if the server supports the option,
and changes in size are reflected as well.
E 8
All echoing takes place at the remote site, so that (except for
delays) the rlogin is transparent.  Flow control via ^S and ^Q and
flushing of input and output on interrupts are handled properly.
I 2
The optional argument
.B \-8
D 7
allows an eight-bit data path,
otherwise parity bits are stripped.
E 7
I 7
D 8
allows an eight-bit data path at all times;
E 8
I 8
allows an eight-bit input data path at all times;
E 8
otherwise parity bits are stripped except when the remote side's
stop and start characters are other than ^S/^Q.
E 7
I 3
The argument
.B \-L
allows the rlogin session to be run in litout mode.
D 4
The argument
.B \-w
if used, says to not do window size propagation.  This is for talking to
hosts still running 4.2BSD software.
E 4
E 3
E 2
A line of the form ``~.'' disconnects from the remote host, where
D 2
``~'' is the escape character.  A different escape character may
E 2
I 2
``~'' is the escape character.
Similarly, the line ``~^Z'' (where ^Z, control-Z, is the suspend character)
will suspend the rlogin session.
Substitution of the delayed-suspend character (normally ^Y)
for the suspend character suspends the send portion of the rlogin,
but allows output from the remote system.
A different escape character may
E 2
be specified by the
.B \-e
option.
There is no space separating this option flag and the argument
character.
.SH SEE ALSO
rsh(1C)
.SH FILES
/usr/hosts/*		for \fIrhost\fP version of the command
.SH BUGS
D 6
More terminal characteristics should be propagated.
E 6
I 6
More of the environment should be propagated.
E 6
E 1
