h57231
s 00001/00001/00064
d D 6.1 85/04/29 15:00:55 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00014/00032/00051
d D 5.1 85/04/29 15:00:41 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00083/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 15:00:24 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH RM 1 4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH RM 1 "1 April 1981"
E 3
I 3
.TH RM 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
rm, rmdir  \- remove (unlink) files
E 2
I 2
rm, rmdir  \- remove (unlink) files or directories
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rm
[
.B \-f
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-i
] [
.B \-
] file ...
.PP
.B rmdir
dir ...
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rm
D 2
removes the entries for one or more
files
from a directory.
If an entry was the last link to the file, the file
is destroyed.
E 2
I 2
removes the entries for one or more files from a directory.
If an entry was the last link to the file, the file is destroyed.
E 2
Removal of a file requires write permission in its directory,
but neither read nor write permission on the file itself.
.PP
D 2
If a file has no write permission
and the standard input is a terminal,
its permissions are printed and a line is read from
the standard input.
If that line begins with `y' the file is deleted,
otherwise the file remains.
No questions are asked
and no errors are reported
when the
E 2
I 2
If a file has no write permission and the standard input is a terminal,
its permissions are printed and a line is read from the standard input.
If that line begins with `y' the file is deleted, otherwise the file remains.
No questions are asked and no errors are reported when the
E 2
.B \-f
(force) option is given.
.PP
If a designated file is a directory,
D 2
an error comment is printed unless the optional
argument
E 2
I 2
an error comment is printed unless the optional argument
E 2
.B \-r
D 2
has been used.
In that case,
E 2
I 2
has been used.  In that case,
E 2
.I rm
D 2
recursively deletes the
entire contents of the specified directory,
E 2
I 2
recursively deletes the entire contents of the specified directory,
E 2
and the directory itself.
.PP
If the
.B \-i
(interactive) option is in effect,
.I rm
D 2
asks whether to delete each file,
and, under
E 2
I 2
asks whether to delete each file, and, under
E 2
.BR \-r ,
whether to examine each directory.
.PP
The null option
.B \-
indicates that all the arguments following it are to be treated as
file names.  This allows the specification of file names starting with
a minus.
.PP
.I Rmdir
D 2
removes entries for the named directories,
which must be empty.
E 2
I 2
removes entries for the named directories, which must be empty.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
unlink(2)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Generally self-explanatory.
It is forbidden to remove the file `..' merely to avoid the
antisocial consequences of inadvertently doing something like
`rm \-r .*'.
E 2
I 2
rm(1), unlink(2), rmdir(2)
E 2
E 1
