h28165
s 00000/00002/00051
d D 6.2 86/05/07 13:26:30 mckusick 4 3
c delete author
e
s 00002/00001/00051
d D 6.1 85/04/29 20:13:44 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00009/00008/00043
d D 5.1 85/04/29 20:13:01 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00051/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 20:12:19 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH SOELIM 1 2/24/79
.UC
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH SOELIM 1 "16 September 1982"
E 3
I 3
.TH SOELIM 1 "%Q%"
.UC
E 3
E 2
.SH NAME
soelim \- eliminate \&.so's from nroff input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B soelim
[
file ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Soelim
reads the specified files or the standard input and performs the textual
inclusion implied by the
.I nroff
directives of the form
.PP
.DT
	\&.so somefile
.PP
when they appear at the beginning of input lines.
This is useful since programs such as
.I tbl
D 2
do not normally do this;
it allows the placement of individual tables
E 2
I 2
do not normally do this; it allows the placement of individual tables
E 2
in separate files to be run as a part of a large document.
.PP
D 2
Note that inclusion can be suppressed by using
`\'' instead of `\.', i.e.
E 2
I 2
An argument consisting of a single minus
.RB ( \- )
is taken to be
a file name corresponding to the standard input.
E 2
.PP
I 2
Note that inclusion can be suppressed by using `\'' instead of `\.', i.e.
.PP
E 2
.DT
	\'so /usr/lib/tmac.s
.PP
A sample usage of
.I soelim
would be
.PP
	soelim exum?.n | tbl | nroff \-ms | col | lpr
.SH SEE\ ALSO
colcrt(1), more(1)
D 4
.SH AUTHOR
William Joy
E 4
.SH BUGS
The format of the source commands must involve no strangeness \-
D 2
exactly one
blank must precede and no blanks follow the file name.
E 2
I 2
exactly one blank must precede and no blanks follow the file name.
E 2
E 1
