h61371
s 00026/00065/00033
d D 6.4 87/11/24 18:12:35 bostic 5 4
c only mention ``host@user'', describe syntax for ttyname argument, 
c general cleanup
e
s 00001/00001/00097
d D 6.3 87/04/10 10:11:15 bostic 4 3
c bug report 4.2BSD/man/5
e
s 00005/00000/00093
d D 6.2 86/05/05 16:57:57 mckusick 3 2
c note protocol inconsistencies
e
s 00001/00001/00092
d D 6.1 85/04/29 21:17:29 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00093/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/04/29 21:17:20 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH TALK 1 "27 June 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH TALK 1 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
talk \- talk to another user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B talk
person [ ttyname ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 5
.I Talk
is a visual communication program which
copies lines from your terminal to that of
another user.
E 5
I 5
\fITalk\fP is a visual communication program which copies lines from your
terminal to that of another user.
E 5
.PP 
D 5
If you wish to talk to someone on you own machine, then
.I person
is just the person's login name. If you wish to talk to
a user on another host, then
.I person
is of the form :
.sp
.in +2.0i
.I host!user
\ or
.br
.I host.user
\ or
.br
.I host:user
\ or
.br
.I user@host
.br
.in -2.0i
.sp
though
D 4
.I host@user 
E 4
I 4
.I user@host
E 4
is perhaps preferred.
E 5
I 5
If you wish to talk to someone on your own machine, then \fIperson\fP
is just the person's login name.  If you wish to talk to a user on
another host, then \fIperson\fP is of the form \fIuser@host\fP.
E 5
.PP
D 5
If you want to talk to a user who is logged in more than once,
the
.I ttyname
argument may be used to indicate the
appropriate terminal name.
E 5
I 5
If you want to talk to a user who is logged in more than once, the
\fIttyname\fP argument may be used to indicate the appropriate terminal
name, where \fIttyname\fP is of the form ``ttyXX''.
E 5
.PP
D 5
When first called,
it sends the message
E 5
I 5
When first called, \fItalk\fP sends the message
E 5
.PP
     Message from TalkDaemon@his_machine...
     talk: connection requested by your_name@your_machine.
     talk: respond with: talk your_name@your_machine
.PP
to the user you wish to talk to. At this point, the recipient
D 5
of the message should reply by 
typing 
E 5
I 5
of the message should reply by typing
E 5
.PP
     talk \ your_name@your_machine
.PP
D 5
It doesn't matter from 
which machine the recipient replies, as long as his login-name is
the same.
Once communication is established, the two parties may type 
simultaneously, with their output appearing in separate windows. 
Typing control L will cause the screen to be reprinted, while your 
erase, kill, and word kill characters will work in talk as normal.
To exit,
just type your interrupt character;
.I talk
then moves the cursor to the bottom of the screen and restores 
the terminal.
E 5
I 5
It doesn't matter from which machine the recipient replies, as
long as his login-name is the same.  Once communication is established,
the two parties may type simultaneously, with their output appearing
in separate windows.  Typing control L (^L) will cause the screen to
be reprinted, while your erase, kill, and word kill characters will
behave normally.  To exit, just type your interrupt character; \fItalk\fP
then moves the cursor to the bottom of the screen and restores the
terminal to its previous state.
E 5
.PP
D 5
Permission to talk may be denied or granted by use of the
.I mesg
command.
At the outset talking is allowed.
Certain commands, in particular
.I nroff
and
.IR  pr (1)
disallow
messages in order to prevent messy output.
E 5
I 5
Permission to talk may be denied or granted by use of the \fImesg\fP
command.  At the outset talking is allowed.  Certain commands, in
particular \fInroff\fP and \fIpr\fP, disallow messages in order to
prevent messy output.
E 5
.PP
.SH FILES
/etc/hosts	to find the recipient's machine
.br
D 5
/etc/utmp	to find the recipient's tty
E 5
I 5
/etc/utmp		to find the recipient's tty
E 5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 5
mesg(1), who(1), mail(1), write(1)
E 5
I 5
mail(1), mesg(1), who(1), write(1)
E 5
I 3
.SH BUGS
D 5
The version of 
.IR talk (1)
released with 4.3BSD uses a protocol that is incompatible
with the protocol used in the version released with 4.2BSD.
E 5
I 5
The version of \fItalk\fP(1) released with 4.3BSD uses a protocol that
is incompatible with the protocol used in the version released with 4.2BSD.
E 5
E 3
E 1
