h05895
s 00010/00005/00029
d D 6.3 88/07/09 11:45:07 bostic 3 2
c install approved copyright notice
e
s 00022/00017/00012
d D 6.2 88/05/04 15:27:23 bostic 2 1
c update; add verification capability; Berkeley header
e
s 00029/00000/00000
d D 6.1 85/12/11 18:54:49 bloom 1 0
c date and time created 85/12/11 18:54:49 by bloom
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
D 2
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 2
I 2
.\" All rights reserved.
E 2
.\"
I 2
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
D 3
.\" provided that this notice is preserved and that due credit is given
.\" to the University of California at Berkeley. The name of the University
.\" may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" software without specific prior written permission. This software
.\" is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
E 3
I 3
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
E 3
.\"
E 2
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.TH TCOPY 1 "%Q%"
.UC 6
.SH NAME
D 2
tcopy \- copy a mag tape
E 2
I 2
tcopy \- copy and/or verify mag tapes
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.B tcopy src
[
.B dest
]
E 2
I 2
.B tcopy
[ -cv ] [ -s maxblk ] [src [ dest ]]
E 2
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
.I Tcopy
is designed to copy magnetic tapes.  The only assumption made about
the tape is that there are two tape marks at the end.
.I Tcopy
with only a source tape specified will print information about the
sizes of records and tape files.  If a destination is specified,
then, a copy will be made of the source tape.  The blocking on the
destination tape will be identical to that used on the source tape.
Copying a tape will yield the same output as if just printing the
sizes.
E 2
I 2
\fITcopy\fP is designed to copy magnetic tapes.  The only assumption made
about the tape is that there are two tape marks at the end.  \fITcopy\fP
with only a source tape (\fBrmt0\fP by default) specified will print
information about the sizes of records and tape files.  If a destination
is specified a copy will be made of the source tape.  The blocking on the
destination tape will be identical to that used on the source tape.  Copying
a tape will yield the same output as if just printing the sizes.
.PP
The \fB-s\fP option allows you to specify a maximum block size.  The \fB-v\fP
option verifies that two tapes are identical.  The \fB-c\fP option does
the copy and then verifies that the two tapes are identical.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mtio(4)
E 1
