h30343
s 00001/00001/00088
d D 6.1 85/04/29 18:01:32 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00005/00005/00084
d D 5.1 85/04/29 18:01:21 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00089/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 18:01:12 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH TC 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH TC 1  "18 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH TC 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
D 2
tc \- photypesetter simulator
E 2
I 2
tc \- photoypesetter simulator
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tc
[
.B \-t
]
[
.B \-s\c
N
]
[
.B \-p\c
L
]
[
file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tc
interprets its
input (standard input default)
as device codes for a Graphic Systems phototypesetter (cat).
The standard output of
.I tc
D 2
is intended for a Tektronix 4015 (a 4014 teminal
E 2
I 2
is intended for a Tektronix 4015 (a 4014 terminal
E 2
with ASCII and APL character sets).
The sixteen typesetter sizes are mapped into the 4014's
four sizes;
the entire TROFF character set is drawn using the 4014's
character generator,
using overstruck combinations where necessary.
Typical usage:
.IP "" 15
troff \-t file | tc
.PP
At the end of each page
.I tc
waits for a newline (empty line) from the keyboard before
continuing on to the next page.
In this wait state, the command
.B e
will suppress the screen erase before the next page;
.B s\c
N will cause the next N pages to be skipped;
and
.B !\c
line will send line to the shell.
.PP
The command line options are:
.TP
.B  \-t
Don't wait between pages; for directing output into a file.
.TP 
.BR \-s N
Skip the first N pages.
.TP 
.BR \-p L
Set page length to L.
L may include the scale factors
.B p
(points),
.B i
(inches),
.B c
(centimeters),
and
.B P
(picas);
default is picas.
.TP
.BI \(fm\- l\ w \(fm
Multiply the default aspect ratio, 1.5, of a displayed page
by
.I l/w.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
troff(1),
D 2
plot(1)
E 2
I 2
plot(1G)
E 2
.SH BUGS
Font distinctions are lost.
.br
D 2
.I tc's
E 2
I 2
.IR tc 's
E 2
character set is limited to ASCII in just one size.
.br
The aspect ratio option is unbelievable.
E 1
