h15300
s 00016/00028/00018
d D 6.2 87/11/17 17:30:26 bostic 4 3
c document -l flag, minor cleanups
e
s 00001/00001/00045
d D 6.1 85/04/29 15:05:27 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00003/00003/00043
d D 5.1 85/04/29 15:05:15 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00046/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 15:05:05 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH TIME 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH TIME 1  "18 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH TIME 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
time \- time a command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B time
D 4
command
E 4
I 4
[-l] command
E 4
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 4
The
given command is executed; after it is complete,
.I time
prints the elapsed time during the command, the time
spent in the system, and the time spent in execution
of the command.
Times are reported in seconds.
E 4
I 4
The given command is executed; after it is complete, \fItime\fP
prints the elapsed time during the command, the time spent in the
system, and the time spent in execution of the command.  Times are
reported in seconds.  If the \fB-l\fP option is supplied, the
contents of the \fIrusage\fP structure are printed as well.
E 4
.PP
On a PDP-11, the execution time can depend on what kind of memory
D 4
the program happens to land in;
the user time in MOS is often half what it is in core.
E 4
I 4
the program happens to land in; the user time in MOS is often half
what it is in core.
E 4
.PP
D 4
The times are printed on the diagnostic output stream.
E 4
I 4
The times are printed on the diagnostic output stream, ``stderr''.
E 4
.PP
D 4
.I Time
is built in to
D 2
.I csh(1),
E 2
I 2
.IR csh (1),
E 2
using a different output format.
E 4
I 4
\fITime\fP is a built-in command to \fIcsh\fP(1), with a much different
syntax.  This command is available as ``/bin/time'' to \fIcsh\fP users.
E 4
.SH BUGS
D 4
Elapsed time is accurate to the second,
while the CPU times are measured
D 2
to the 60th second.
E 2
I 2
to the 100th second.
E 2
Thus the sum of the CPU times can be up to a second larger
than the elapsed time.
.PP
.I Time
is a built-in command to
.IR csh (1),
with a much different syntax.  This command is available as
``/bin/time'' to
.I csh
users.
E 4
I 4
Elapsed time is accurate to the second, while the CPU times are measured
to the 100th second.  Thus the sum of the CPU times can be up to a second
larger than the elapsed time.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
include/sys/h/resource.h
E 4
E 1
