h07003
s 00001/00001/00159
d D 6.2 04/09/16 22:49:28 msokolov 4 3
c add pstroff(1) to SEE ALSO
e
s 00003/00002/00157
d D 6.1 85/04/29 18:05:31 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00021/00077/00138
d D 5.1 85/04/29 18:05:02 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00215/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 18:04:47 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH TROFF 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH TROFF 1 "7 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH TROFF 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
troff, nroff \- text formatting and typesetting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B troff
[ option ] ...
[ file ] ...
.PP
.B nroff
[ option ] ...
[ file ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Troff
formats text in the named
.I files
D 2
for
printing on a Graphic Systems C/A/T phototypesetter;
E 2
I 2
for printing on a Graphic Systems C/A/T phototypesetter;
E 2
.I nroff
D 2
for typewriter-like devices.
E 2
I 2
is used for for typewriter-like devices.
E 2
Their capabilities are described in the
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual.
.PP
If no
.I file
argument is present, the standard input is read.
An argument consisting of a single minus
.RB ( \- )
D 2
is taken to be
a file name corresponding to the standard input.
E 2
I 2
is taken to be a file name corresponding to the standard input.
E 2
The options, which may appear in any order so long as they appear
before the files, are:
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.BI \-o list
D 2
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in
the comma-separated
E 2
I 2
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in the comma-separated
E 2
.I list
of numbers and ranges.
A range
.IB N \- M
means pages
.I N
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.I \-N
D 2
means
from the beginning to page
E 2
I 2
means from the beginning to page
E 2
.IR N ;
and a final
.IR N \-
D 2
means
from
E 2
I 2
means from
E 2
.I N
to the end.
.TP
.BI \-n N
Number first generated page
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-s N
Stop every
.I N
pages.
.I Nroff
will halt prior to every
.I N
pages (default
.IR N =1)
D 2
to allow paper loading or
changing, and will resume upon receipt of a newline.
E 2
I 2
to allow paper loading or changing, and will resume upon receipt of a newline.
E 2
.I Troff
will stop the phototypesetter every
.I N
D 2
pages,
produce a trailer to allow changing cassettes,
E 2
I 2
pages, produce a trailer to allow changing cassettes,
E 2
and resume when the typesetter's start button is pressed.
.TP
.BI \-m name
Prepend the macro file
.BI /usr/lib/tmac/tmac. name
to the input
.IR files .
.TP
.BI \-r aN
Set register
.I a
(one-character) to
.IR N .
.TP
.B \-i
Read standard input after the input files are exhausted.
.TP
.B \-q
Invoke the simultaneous input-output mode of the
.B rd
request.
.HP
.bd I 3
D 2
.I Nroff only
.br
.bd I
.TP
.BI \-T name
Prepare output for specified terminal.
Known
.I names
are
.B 37
for the (default) 
Teletype Corporation Model 37 terminal,
.B tn300
for the GE TermiNet\ 300 (or any terminal without half-line
capability),
.B 300S
for the \s-1DASI\s+1-300S,
.B 300
for the \s-1DASI\s+1-300,
and
.B 450
for the \s-1DASI\s+1-450
(Diablo Hyterm).
.TP
.B \-e
Produce equally-spaced words in adjusted
lines, using full terminal resolution.
.TP
.B \-h
Use output tabs during horizontal spacing
to speed output and reduce output character count.
Tab settings are assumed to be every
8 nominal character widths.
.HP
.bd I 3
E 2
.I Troff only
.br
.bd I
.TP
.B \-t
D 2
Direct output to the standard output instead
of the phototypesetter.
E 2
I 2
Direct output to the standard output instead of the phototypesetter.
E 2
.TP
.B \-f
Refrain from feeding out paper and stopping
phototypesetter at the end of the run.
.TP
.B \-w
D 2
Wait until phototypesetter is available, if
currently busy.
E 2
I 2
Wait until phototypesetter is available, if currently busy.
E 2
.TP
.B \-b
D 2
Report whether the phototypesetter
is busy or available.
E 2
I 2
Report whether the phototypesetter is busy or available.
E 2
No text processing is done.
.TP
.B \-a
D 2
Send a printable ASCII approximation
of the results to the standard output.
E 2
I 2
Send a printable ASCII approximation of the results to the standard output.
E 2
.TP
.BR \-p N
Print all characters in point size
.I  N
while retaining all prescribed spacings and motions,
D 2
to reduce phototypesetter elasped time.
E 2
I 2
to reduce phototypesetter elapsed time.
E 2
.TP
D 2
.B \-g
Prepare output for a GCOS
phototypesetter and direct it to the standard output
(see
.IR gcat (1)).
E 2
I 2
.BI \-F fontdir
The directory
D 3
.I fontdir contains the font width tables instead of the default directory
E 3
I 3
.I fontdir
contains the font width tables instead of the default directory
E 3
/usr/lib/fonts. This option can be used to produce output for devices
besides the phototypesetter.
E 2
.PP
If the file
.I /usr/adm/tracct
is writable,
.I troff
keeps phototypesetter accounting records there.
The integrity of that file may be secured by making
.I troff
D 2
a `set user-id' program.
E 2
I 2
a 'set user-id' program.
E 2
.SH FILES
.ta \w'/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*  'u
D 2
/usr/lib/suftab	suffix hyphenation tables
.br
E 2
/tmp/ta*	temporary file
.br
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*	standard macro files
.br
/usr/lib/term/*	terminal driving tables for
.I nroff
.br
/usr/lib/font/*	font width tables for
.I troff
.br
/dev/cat	phototypesetter
.br
/usr/adm/tracct	accounting statistics for /dev/cat
.SH "SEE ALSO"
J. F. Ossanna,
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual
.br
B. W. Kernighan,
.I
A TROFF Tutorial
.br
D 2
vtroff(1), eqn(1), tbl(1), pti(1), ms(7), me(7), man(7), soelim(1)
.br
col(1), tk(1)
.RI ( nroff
only)
.br
tc(1)
.RI ( troff
only)
E 2
I 2
D 4
eqn(1), tbl(1), ms(7), me(7), man(7), col(1)
E 4
I 4
pstroff(1), eqn(1), tbl(1), ms(7), me(7), man(7), col(1)
E 4
E 2
E 1
