h06800
s 00001/00001/00061
d D 6.1 85/04/29 18:07:57 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00012/00025/00050
d D 5.1 85/04/29 18:07:43 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00075/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 18:07:34 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH UNIQ 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH UNIQ 1  "10 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH UNIQ 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
uniq \- report repeated lines in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uniq
[
.B \-udc
[
.BR + n
] [
.BR \- n
]
] [ input [ output ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uniq
D 2
reads the input
file comparing adjacent lines.
In the normal case, the second and succeeding copies
of repeated lines are
E 2
I 2
reads the input file comparing adjacent lines.
In the normal case, the second and succeeding copies of repeated lines are
E 2
removed; the remainder is written on the output file.
D 2
Note that repeated lines must be adjacent
in order to be found;
see
E 2
I 2
Note that repeated lines must be adjacent in order to be found; see
E 2
.IR  sort (1).
If the
.B \-u
D 2
flag is used,
just the lines that are not repeated
in the original file are output.
The
E 2
I 2
flag is used, just the lines that are not repeated
in the original file are output.  The
E 2
.B \-d
D 2
option specifies that
one copy of just the repeated lines is to
be written.
E 2
I 2
option specifies that one copy of just the repeated lines is to be written.
E 2
The normal mode output is the union of the
.B \-u
and
.B \-d
mode outputs.
.PP
The
.B \-c
option supersedes
.B \-u
and
.B \-d
D 2
and generates
an output report in default style
but with each line preceded by a count of the
number of times it occurred.
E 2
I 2
and generates an output report in default style
but with each line preceded by a count of the number of times it occurred.
E 2
.PP
The
.I n
D 2
arguments specify skipping an initial portion of each line
in the comparison:
E 2
I 2
arguments specify skipping an initial portion of each line in the comparison:
E 2
.TP 8
.BI \- n
The first
.IR n 
D 2
fields
together with any blanks before each are ignored.
E 2
I 2
fields together with any blanks before each are ignored.
E 2
A field is defined as a string of non-space, non-tab characters
separated by tabs and spaces from its neighbors.
.TP 8
.BI + n
The first
.IR n 
D 2
characters are ignored.
Fields are skipped before characters.
E 2
I 2
characters are ignored.  Fields are skipped before characters.
E 2
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sort(1), comm(1)
E 1
