h56764
s 00010/00009/00064
d D 6.2 86/04/24 19:28:22 mckusick 4 3
c update from rfg
e
s 00001/00001/00072
d D 6.1 85/04/29 15:07:18 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00005/00005/00068
d D 5.1 85/04/29 15:07:08 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00073/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 15:07:00 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH UUENCODE 1C 6/1/80
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH UUENCODE 1C "1 June 1980"
E 3
I 3
.TH UUENCODE 1C "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
uuencode,uudecode \- encode/decode a binary file for tranmission via mail
E 2
I 2
D 4
uuencode,uudecode \- encode/decode a binary file for transmission via mail
E 4
I 4
uuencode, uudecode \- encode/decode a binary file for transmission via mail
E 4
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uuencode
[ source ] remotedest |
.B mail
sys1!sys2!..!decode
.br
.B uudecode
[ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uuencode
and
.I uudecode
are used to send a binary file via uucp (or other) mail.
This combination can be used over indirect mail links
even when
D 2
.I uusend(1)
E 2
I 2
.IR uusend (1C)
E 2
is not available.
.PP
.I Uuencode
takes the named source file (default standard input) and
produces an encoded version on the standard output.
The encoding uses only printing ASCII characters,
and includes the mode of the file and the
.I remotedest
for recreation on the remote system.
.PP
.I Uudecode
reads an encoded file,
strips off any leading and trailing lines added by mailers,
and recreates the original file with the specified mode and name.
.PP
The intent is that all mail to the user ``decode'' should be filtered
D 4
through the uudecode program.  This way the file is created automatically
E 4
I 4
through the
.I uudecode
program.  This way the file is created automatically
E 4
without human intervention.
This is possible on the uucp network by either using
D 2
.I delivermail
E 2
I 2
.I sendmail
E 2
or by making
.I rmail
be a link to
.I Mail
instead of
D 4
.I mail.
E 4
I 4
.IR mail .
E 4
In each case, an alias must be created in a master file to get
D 4
the automatic invocation of uudecode.
E 4
I 4
the automatic invocation of
.IR uudecode .
E 4
.PP
If these facilities are not available, the file can be sent to a
user on the remote machine who can uudecode it manually.
.PP
The encode file has an ordinary text form and can be edited
by any text editor to change the mode or remote name.
D 4
.SH SEE\ ALSO
D 2
uuencode(5), uusend(1), uucp(1), uux(1), mail(1)
E 2
I 2
uuencode(5), uusend(1C), uucp(1C), uux(1C), mail(1)
E 2
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Horton
E 4
I 4
.SH SEE ALSO
atob(n), uusend(1C), uucp(1C), uux(1C), mail(1), uuencode(5)
E 4
.SH BUGS
The file is expanded by 35% (3 bytes become 4 plus control information)
causing it to take longer to transmit.
.PP
The user on the remote system who is invoking
.I uudecode
(often
D 4
.I uucp)
E 4
I 4
.IR uucp )
E 4
must have write permission on the specified file.
E 1
