h44159
s 00037/00015/00047
d D 6.2 86/04/24 19:55:13 mckusick 2 1
c update from rfg
e
s 00062/00000/00000
d D 6.1 85/06/24 12:44:59 bloom 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.3BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.TH UUQ 1C "%Q%"
.UC 6
.SH NAME
uuq \- examine or manipulate the uucp queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uuq
D 2
[\fB-l\fP] [\fB-h] [\fB-s\fPsystem] [\fB-u\fPuser] [\fB-d\fPjobno] [\fB-r\fPsdir] [\fB-b\fPbaudrate]
E 2
I 2
[
.B -l
] [
.B -h
] [
.BI -s system
] [
.BI -u user
] [
.BI -d jobno
] [
.BI -r sdir
] [
.BI -b baud
]
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Uuq
is used to examine (and possibly delete) entries in the uucp queue.
.PP
When listing jobs,
.I uuq
D 2
uses a format reminiscent of ls.
E 2
I 2
uses a format reminiscent of
.IR ls .
E 2
For the long format,
D 2
information for each job listed includes:
E 2
I 2
information for each job listed includes
E 2
job number, number of files to transfer, user who
spooled the job, number of bytes to send, type of command requested
(S for sending files, R for receiving files, X for remote uucp),
and file or command desired.
.PP
Several options are available:
.TP 10
.B \-h
Print only the summary lines for each system.  Summary lines give system
name, number of jobs for the system, and total number of bytes to send.
.TP 10
.B \-l
Specifies a long format listing.  The default is to list only the
job numbers sorted across the page.
D 2
.TP10
E 2
I 2
.TP 10
E 2
.BI \-s system
Limit output to jobs for systems whose system names begin with \fIsystem\fP.
.TP 10
.BI \-u user
Limit output to jobs for users whose login names begin with \fIuser\fP.
.TP 10
.BI \-d jobno
D 2
Delete job number \fIjobno\fP (as obtained from a previous uuq command) from
the uucp queue.
E 2
I 2
Delete job number \fIjobno\fP (as obtained from a previous \fIuuq\fP command)
from the uucp queue.
Only the UUCP Administrator is permitted to delete jobs.
E 2
.TP 10
.BI \-r sdir
Look for files in the spooling directory \fIsdir\fP instead of the default
directory.
.TP 10
D 2
.BI \-b baudrate
Use \fIbaudrate\fP to compute the transfer time instead of the default
800 baud.
E 2
I 2
.BI \-b baud
Use \fIbaud\fP to compute the transfer time instead of the default
1200 baud.
E 2
.SH FILES
D 2
/usr/spool/uucp/C.* \- command files
E 2
I 2
.ta \w'/usr/spool/uucp/D.hostname/D.*   'u
/usr/spool/uucp/	Default spool directory
/usr/spool/uucp/C./C.*	Control files
E 2
.br
D 2
/usr/spool/uucp/D.* \- data files
E 2
I 2
/usr/spool/uucp/D\fIhostname\fP./D.*	Outgoing data files
/usr/spool/uucp/X./X.*	Outgoing execution files
E 2
.SH SEE ALSO
D 2
uucp(1C), uux(1C), uulog(1C)
E 2
I 2
uucp(1C), uux(1C), uulog(1C), uusnap(8C)
E 2
.SH BUGS
No information is available on work requested by the remote machine.
D 2
.br
E 2
I 2
.PP
E 2
The user who requests a remote uucp command is unknown.
D 2
.br
uuq -l can be horrendously slow.
E 2
I 2
.PP
.B "Uuq -l"
can be horrendously slow.
.SH AUTHOR
Lou Salkind, New York University
E 2
E 1
