h61384
s 00001/00001/00032
d D 6.1 85/04/29 15:10:28 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00012/00053/00021
d D 5.1 85/04/29 15:10:20 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00074/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 15:10:13 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH WC 1 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH WC 1  "1 June 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH WC 1 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
wc \- word count
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wc
[
D 2
.B \-lwcpt
] [
.BI \-b baud
] [
.BI \-s pagesize
] [
.B \-u
] [
.B \-v
] [ name ... ]
E 2
I 2
.B \-lwc
] 
[ name ... ]
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
I 2
.PP
E 2
.I Wc
D 2
counts lines, words and characters,
and optionally pages and the print time,
in the named files,
or in the standard input if no name appears.
A word is a maximal string of characters
delimited by spaces, tabs or newlines.
E 2
I 2
counts lines, words and characters 
in the named files, or in the standard input if no name appears.
A word is a maximal string of characters delimited by spaces, tabs or newlines.
E 2
.PP
D 2
If an argument beginning with one of ``lwcpt'' is present,
the specified counts (lines, words, characters, pages, or time)
E 2
I 2
If an argument beginning with one of ``lwc'' is present,
the specified counts (lines, words, or characters)
E 2
are selected by the letters
.BR l ,
.BR w ,
D 2
.BR c ,
.BR p ,
E 2
or
D 2
.BR t .
E 2
I 2
.BR c .
E 2
The default is
D 2
.B \-lwc
unless
.B \-v
is specified.
.PP
The
.B \-b
option asks that the time be figured at
the specified baud rate instead of the default 300 baud.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option specifies that pages are
.I pagesize
lines long instead of the default 66.
.PP
The
.B \-u
options asks that the time printed be based on uucp
transmission time, about 90% as fast as normal.
.PP
The
.B \-v
option asks for a verbose output format,
with headers and including pages and time by default.
E 2
I 2
.BR \-lwc .
E 2
.SH BUGS
D 2
The times given do not take into account variable factors
such as system load;
delays due to tab expansion or tty driver delays,
which can be a factor with cu;
or uucp delays such as mail headers, auxillary protocol files, 
or the time taken to initially connect to another site.
E 2
E 1
