h41624
s 00001/00001/00551
d D 6.5 86/05/12 09:27:06 anne 17 16
c grammar
e
s 00001/00001/00551
d D 6.4 86/04/20 05:24:41 lepreau 16 15
c spelling
e
s 00001/00001/00551
d D 6.3 85/12/03 18:19:49 edward 15 14
c \f changed to \fI
e
s 00028/00032/00524
d D 6.2 85/06/07 13:58:49 edward 14 13
c don't have time to really fix this
e
s 00008/00007/00548
d D 6.1 85/04/29 21:53:06 mckusick 13 12
c manual page first distributed with 4.3BSD
e
s 00005/00000/00550
d D 3.8 85/04/24 16:14:49 edward 12 11
c copyright messages
e
s 00404/00189/00146
d D 3.7 85/04/07 22:17:02 edward 11 10
c good enough for government work
e
s 00001/00001/00334
d D 3.6 84/05/23 01:57:59 edward 10 9
c new sccs id
e
s 00036/00022/00299
d D 3.5 84/04/05 01:01:57 edward 9 8
c work on this later
e
s 00077/00011/00244
d D 3.4 84/03/02 14:50:16 edward 8 7
c attempt
e
s 00019/00004/00236
d D 3.3 83/08/25 18:00:43 edward 7 6
c new user settable buffer size and explanation about SHELL.
e
s 00077/00028/00163
d D 3.2 83/08/22 15:55:51 edward 6 5
c changed for new commands and command line flags.
e
s 00000/00000/00191
d D 3.1 83/08/09 18:50:20 edward 5 4
i
c new version number
e
s 00001/00001/00190
d D 1.4 83/08/09 17:56:58 edward 4 3
c spelling error
e
s 00029/00026/00162
d D 1.3 83/08/02 13:45:48 edward 3 2
c Karen's changes
e
s 00084/00055/00104
d D 1.2 83/07/29 18:26:43 edward 2 1
c new commands
e
s 00159/00000/00000
d D 1.1 83/07/28 18:03:20 edward 1 0
c date and time created 83/07/28 18:03:20 by edward
e
u
U
f b 
t
T
I 1
D 10
.\" %W% %E%
E 10
I 10
D 13
.\" %W% %G%
I 12

.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California,
.\" All rights reserved.  Redistribution permitted subject to
.\" the terms of the Berkeley Software License Agreement.

E 12
E 10
D 11
.TH WINDOW 1 local
E 11
I 11
.TH WINDOW 1 "2 April 1985"
E 13
I 13
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.TH WINDOW 1 "%Q%"
.UC 6
E 13
E 11
.SH NAME
D 11
window \- multiple window shell
E 11
I 11
window \- window environment
E 11
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 6
window
E 6
I 6
.B window
[
.B \-t
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-d
] [
D 11
.B -e escape-char
E 11
I 11
.B \-e escape-char
] [
.B \-c command
E 11
]
E 6
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 11
\fIWindow\fP provides a window oriented working environment
E 11
I 11
D 14
\fIWindow\fP provides a window oriented environment
E 11
on ordinary CRT terminals.
E 14
I 14
\fIWindow\fP implements a window environment on
ASCII terminals.
E 14
.PP
D 11
Windows are rectangular partitions on the physical terminal screen
D 2
that resemble real terminals to all programs running in
E 2
I 2
that are indistinguishable from real terminals to processes running in
E 2
D 6
them.  Their sizes and placement are determined at creation
E 6
I 6
them.  Their sizes are determined at creation
E 6
time.  They are framed as necessary to mark the boundaries between
windows.  Each window, like terminals, has a cursor and a set of
control functions.  Most intelligent terminal functions such as line and
D 2
character deletion and insertion are supported.  A termcap(5)
entry is created for each window and passed on to its processes
in the environment (see environ(8)).  The windows are labeled
with the digits ``1'' through ``9''.  There are a maximum of nine windows.
E 2
I 2
D 6
character deletion and insertion are supported.  A \fItermcap (5)\fP
entry tailored to each window is passed on to its processes
in the environment (see \fIenviron (8)\fP).  A pseudo-terminal
device (\fIpty (4)\fP) is allocated for each window.  This becomes
the standard input, output, and diagnostic output of the processes.
D 3
Initially, a shell, usually \fIcsh (1)\fP, is placed in the window.
E 3
I 3
Initially a shell, usually \fIcsh (1)\fP, is placed in the window.
E 6
I 6
character deletion and insertion are supported.  Display modes
such as underlining and reverse video are supported if the terminal
allows them.
E 11
I 11
A window is a rectangular portion of the physical terminal
D 14
screen associated with a set of processes.  These processes
communicate with the window in the same way they normally
interact with a terminal.  The window program handles the
E 14
I 14
screen associated with a set of processes.  Its size and
position can be changed by the user at any time.  Processes
communicate with their window in the same way they normally
interact with a terminal--through their standard input, output,
and diagnostic file descriptors.  The window program handles the
E 14
details of redirecting input an output to and from the
windows.  At any one time, only one window can receive
input from the keyboard, but all windows can simultaneously send output
to the display.
E 11
E 6
E 3
.PP
I 7
D 11
Each window has a text buffer which can be larger than the window.
Different parts of the buffer can be made visible through scrolling.
E 11
I 11
Windows can overlap and are framed as necessary.  Each window
is named by one of the digits ``1'' to ``9''.  This one character
identifier, as well as a user definable label string, are displayed
with the window on the top edge of its frame.  A window can be
designated to be in the \fIforeground\fP, in which case it will always be
on top of all normal, non-foreground windows, and can be covered
D 14
only by other foreground windows.
E 14
I 14
only by other foreground windows.  A window need not be completely
within the edges of the terminal screen.  Thus a large window
(possibly larger than the screen) may be positioned to show only
a portion of its full size.
E 14
E 11
.PP
E 7
D 3
Windows are labeled with the digits ``1'' through ``9''.
Thus a maximum of nine are supported.
E 3
I 3
D 11
Windows are labeled with the digits ``1'' through ``9'',
D 6
thus a maximum of nine windows are supported.
E 6
I 6
thus a maximum of nine windows can exist at the same time.
E 6
E 3
E 2
One window, the current window, is treated specially.
D 2
This window is indicated by showing its label in reverse video.  Windows
can overlap.  Some can be completely obscured by others.
E 2
I 2
D 6
This window is indicated by displaying its label in reverse video.
E 6
I 6
This window is indicated by displaying its labels in reverse video.
E 11
I 11
D 14
A window need not be completely within the edges of the terminal screen.
Thus a large window (possibly larger than the screen)
can be positioned to show only a portion of its full size.  In addition,
both the size and the position of a window can be changed by
the user at any time.
E 11
E 6
.PP
D 11
Windows can overlap.  Some can be completely obscured by others.
E 2
D 4
The current window is alway on top of all others.
E 4
I 4
The current window is always on top of all others.
E 4
.PP
I 8
Windows need not be completely within the edges of the terminal screen.
Thus a large window (possibly larger than the physical screen)
can be placed to show only a portion of its full size.  This
feature can in some situations replace the ability to change
window sizes which is not supported.
.PP
E 8
I 6
With each newly created window, a shell program is spawned with its
process environment tailored to that window.  In particular,
a pseudo-terminal device (\fIpty (4)\fP) is allocated, and becomes
D 8
the standard input, output and diagnostic output of the shell.  It's
E 8
I 8
the standard input, output and diagnostic output of the shell.  Its
E 8
special characters and modes (see \fIstty (1)\fP) are copied from
the user's real terminal.  Also,
a \fItermcap (5)\fP entry for this window is created
and passed to the shell as \fIenviron (8)\fP
variable \fBTERMCAP\fP.  This \fItermcap\fP entry contains the window's
size and characteristics as well as information about
the real terminal, such as the existence of underline, reverse
video and other display modes, and the codes produced by the terminal's
D 7
keypad (if any).
E 7
I 7
keypad (if any).  The name of the shell program used is obtained from
the environment variable \fBSHELL\fP.
E 7
.PP
E 11
I 11
Windows are designed to have the appearance of real terminals
both to the user and to the processes running in them.  Each window
has a cursor and a set of control functions.  Most intelligent
terminal functions such as line and
E 14
I 14
Each window has a cursor and a set of control functions.  Most intelligent
terminal operations such as line and
E 14
character deletion and insertion are supported.  Display modes
D 14
such as underlining and reverse video are available if the terminal
allows them.  Also, similar to terminals with multiple pages of memory,
each window has a text buffer which can be larger than the window.
Different parts of the buffer can be displayed by scrolling.
E 14
I 14
such as underlining and reverse video are available if they are
supported by the terminal.  In addition,
similar to terminals with multiple pages of memory,
D 16
each window has a text buffer which can have more lines then the window
E 16
I 16
each window has a text buffer which can have more lines than the window
E 16
itself.
E 14
.SH OPTIONS
E 11
D 14
When \fIwindow\fP starts up, the file \fI.windowrc\fP in the
user's home directory is checked.  If it exists, then the
commands contained in it are executed (see \fIsource\fP command below).
D 11
If \fI.windowrc\fP does not exist, then two
equal sized windows are created by default.
E 11
I 11
Otherwise, two equal sized windows are created by default.
E 14
I 14
When \fIwindow\fP starts up, the commands (see long commands below)
contained in the file \fI.windowrc\fP in the user's home directory are
executed.  If it does not exist, two equal sized windows spanning
the terminal screen are created by default.
E 14
E 11
.PP
D 14
The command line arguments are
E 14
I 14
The command line options are
E 14
.TP
D 11
.B -t
E 11
I 11
.B \-t
E 11
Turn on terse mode (see \fIterse\fP command below).
.TP
D 11
.B -f
E 11
I 11
.B \-f
E 11
D 14
Don't perform any startup action.
E 14
I 14
Fast.  Don't perform any startup action.
E 14
.TP
D 11
.B -d
E 11
I 11
.B \-d
E 11
Ignore \fI.windowrc\fP and create the two default
windows instead.
.TP
D 11
.B -e escape-char
Set the escape character to \fIescape-char\fP.
E 11
I 11
.B \-e escape-char
Set the escape character to \fIescape-char\fP.  \fIEscape-char\fP
can be a single character, or in the form \fI^X\fP where \fIX\fP
is any character, meaning control-\fIX\fP.
.TP
.B \-c command
Execute the string \fIcommand\fP as a long command (see below)
before doing anything else.
.SH "PROCESS ENVIRONMENT"
With each newly created window, a shell program is spawned with its
process environment tailored to that window.  Its standard input,
output, and diagnostic file descriptors are bound to one end of either
a pseudo-terminal (\fIpty\fP (4)) or a UNIX domain socket
(\fIsocketpair\fP (4)).  If a pseudo-terminal is used, then its special
characters and modes (see \fIstty\fP (1)) are copied from the physical
terminal.  A \fItermcap\fP (5) entry tailored to this window is created
and passed as environment (\fIenviron\fP (5)) variable
\fITERMCAP\fP.  The termcap entry contains the window's size and
characteristics as well as information from the physical terminal,
such as the existence of underline, reverse video, and other display
modes, and the codes produced by the terminal's function keys,
D 14
if any.  In addition to the termcap entry, a window size structure is
associated with the pseudo-terminal (and indeed with any terminal).  It
is initialized by \fIwindow\fP at creation time, and updated whenever the
size of the window changes, using the \fIioctl\fP (2) call
\fITIOCSWINSZ\fP.  In particular, the editor \fIvi\fP (1) uses
E 14
I 14
if any.  In addition, the window size attributes of the pseudo-terminal
are set to reflect the size of this window, and updated whenever
it is changed by the user.  In particular, the editor \fIvi\fP (1) uses
E 14
this information to redraw its display.
.SH OPERATION
E 11
.PP
E 6
D 2
The \fIwindow\fP program has two basic modes of operation:  command mode
and conversation mode.  In conversation mode, the terminal's
E 2
I 2
D 11
The \fIwindow\fP program has two functional modes:  command mode
and conversation mode.
D 3
.PP
E 3
In conversation mode, the terminal's
E 2
real cursor is placed at the cursor position of the current
window and all keyboard input is sent to the process in that
window.  Output from windows is displayed at all times,
even in command mode.
D 3
.PP
E 3
D 2
Typing \fIwindow\fP's escape character (initially ^P)
in conversation mode switches the program into
E 2
I 2
Typing \fIwindow\fP's escape character (normally ^P)
in conversation mode switches \fIwindow\fP into
E 2
command mode.  In command mode, the top line of the
D 3
terminal screen becomes the command prompt window.
And the cursor in the current window is replaced by a
E 3
I 3
D 6
terminal screen becomes the command prompt window,
and the cursor in the current window is replaced by a
E 3
D 2
reverse video blinking block.
E 2
I 2
blinking reverse video block (if these functions are supported
by the terminal).
E 6
I 6
terminal screen becomes the command prompt window.
E 11
I 11
D 14
During normal execution, \fIwindow\fP can be in one of two modes:
E 14
I 14
During normal execution, \fIwindow\fP can be in one of two states:
E 14
conversation mode and command mode.  In conversation mode, the
terminal's real cursor is placed at the cursor position of a particular
window--called the current window--and input from the keyboard is sent
to the process in that window.  The current window is always
on top of all other windows, except those in foreground.  In addition,
it is set apart by highlighting its identifier and label in reverse video.
E 11
E 6
E 2
.PP
D 2
The available commands are:
E 2
I 2
D 3
The commands are
E 3
I 3
D 11
There are two types of commands.  Short commands are
D 9
usually one or two key strokes.  Long commands are entered
in the command window and terminated with carriage return
D 8
or line feed (see the ``:'' command below).  They consist
of words separated by spaces or tabs.  Words can be quoted
to include the spacing characters.  The ``\\'' convention
of \fIC\fP applies.  Alternately, long commands can be read
in from files and executed (see \fIsource\fP below).
E 8
I 8
or line feed (see the ``:'' command below).  They are parsed
much like conventional programming languages.  Arithematic
and some string expressions are supported, as well as
conditional statements.  The syntax is described below.  Alternately,
long commands can be read in from files and executed (see \fIsource\fP below).
E 9
I 9
usually one or two key strokes.  Long commands are
in the command window (see the ``:'' command below),
or read from a file (see \fIsource\fP below).  They are parsed
much like conventional programming languages, with a syntax
similar to that of C.  Numeric and string expressions and variables
are supported, as well as
conditional statements (if . . .).  The grammar is described below.
E 11
I 11
Typing \fIwindow\fP's escape character (normally ^P) in conversation
mode switches it into command mode.  In command mode, the top line of
the terminal screen becomes the command prompt window, and \fIwindow\fP
interprets input from the keyboard as commands to manipulate windows.
E 11
E 9
E 8
.PP
D 9
The short commands are
E 9
I 9
D 11
The short commands.  Below, \fI[1-9]\fP represents one of the
keys ``1'' through ``9,'' used to select the correponding window
``1'' through ``9.''
E 11
I 11
There are two types of commands: short commands are usually one or two
key strokes; long commands are strings either typed by the user in the
command window (see the ``:'' command below), or read from a file (see
\fIsource\fP below).
.SH "SHORT COMMANDS"
Below, \fI#\fP represents one of the digits ``1'' to ``9''
corresponding to the windows 1 to 9.  \fI^X\fP means control-\fIX\fP,
where \fPX\fP is any character.  In particular, \fI^^\fP is
D 15
control-^.  \fIEscape\fP is the escape key, or \f^[\fP.
E 15
I 15
control-^.  \fIEscape\fP is the escape key, or \fI^[\fP.
E 15
E 11
E 9
E 3
E 2
.TP
D 11
.B [1-9]
D 2
Select window [1-9] and return to conversation mode.
E 2
I 2
Select window \fI[1-9]\fP as the current window
E 11
I 11
.B #
Select window \fI#\fP as the current window
E 11
and return to conversation mode.
E 2
.TP
D 11
.B %[1-9]
D 2
Select window [1-9] but stay in command mode.
E 2
I 2
Select window \fI[1-9]\fP but stay in command mode.
E 11
I 11
.B %#
Select window \fI#\fP but stay in command mode.
E 11
E 2
.TP
D 11
.B ?
List a short summary of commands.
E 11
I 11
.B ^^
Select the previous window and return to conversation
mode.  This is useful for toggling between two windows.
E 11
.TP
I 2
D 11
.B ^L
Redraw the screen.
.TP
E 11
E 2
.B escape
Return to conversation mode.
.TP
.B ^P
Return to conversation mode and write ^P to the
current window.  Thus, typing two ^P's in conversation
mode sends one to the current window.  If the \fIwindow\fP
escape is changed to some other character, that
D 2
character takes the place of ^P.
E 2
I 2
character takes the place of ^P here.
E 2
.TP
I 8
D 11
.B ^^
Select the previous current window and return to conversation
mode.  This is useful for toggling between two windows.
E 11
I 11
.B ?
List a short summary of commands.
E 11
.TP
I 11
.B ^L
Redraw the screen.
.TP
E 11
E 8
D 2
.B .
Exit \fIwindow\fP.  You are asked to confirm this.
E 2
I 2
.B q
Exit \fIwindow\fP.  Confirmation is requested.
E 2
.TP
I 6
.B ^Z
Suspend \fIwindow\fP.
.TP
E 6
.B w
D 2
Create a new window.  You are prompted for the position
and size of the window.  The cursor is placed on the screen
and the keys ``h,j,k,l''
E 2
I 2
D 11
Create a new window.  You are prompted for the positions
E 11
I 11
Create a new window.  The user is prompted for the positions
E 11
of the upper left and lower right corners of the window.
D 3
The cursor is placed on the screen and the keys ``h,j,k,l''
E 2
moves the cursor left, down, up, and right, respectively.
D 2
And the keys ``H,J,K,L'' moves the cursor to the respective
E 2
I 2
The keys ``H,J,K,L'' moves the cursor to the respective
E 2
limits of the screen.  Typing a number before the movement keys
E 3
I 3
The cursor is placed on the screen and the keys ``h'', ``j'',
``k'', and ``l''
move the cursor left, down, up, and right, respectively.
The keys ``H'', ``J'', ``K'', and ``L'' move the cursor to the respective
D 6
limits of the screen.  Number before the movement keys
E 6
I 6
limits of the screen.  Typing a number before the movement keys
E 6
E 3
D 2
repeats the movement the appropriate number of times.
Return enters the cursor position
E 2
I 2
D 11
repeats the movement that number of times.
D 3
Typing return enters the cursor position
E 3
I 3
Return enters the cursor position
E 11
I 11
repeats the movement that number of times.  Return enters the cursor position
E 11
E 3
E 2
as the upper left corner of the window.  The lower right corner
D 9
is entered in the same manner.  Typing escape (or ^[) at any
D 3
point returns you to command mode.
E 3
I 3
point cancels this command.
E 9
I 9
is entered in the same manner.  During this process,
D 11
the position and size of the new window are indicated by a rectangular
box drawn on the screen.  Typing escape (or ^[) at any point
E 11
I 11
the placement of the new window is indicated by a rectangular
box drawn on the screen, corresponding to where the new window
will be framed.  Typing escape at any point
E 11
cancels this command.
E 9
E 3
.IP
D 2
A pseudo-terminal device (pty(5)) is allocated for the window and
the terminal modes and special characters (see stty(1)) made
identical to the real terminal.  A shell is then started with
the pseudo-terminal as the standard input, output and diagnostic
output.  The environment variable SHELL is checked to find the
name of the shell program.  \fICsh\fP(1) is used by default.
E 2
I 2
D 6
The environment variable SHELL is checked to find the
name of the shell program to place in the window.
\fICsh\fP (1) is used by default.
E 2
.IP
This window is given the first available label.
E 6
I 6
This window becomes the current window,
D 7
and is given the first available label.
E 7
I 7
D 11
and is given the first available label.  The default buffer size
is used (see \fIbuffer\fP command below).
E 11
I 11
and is given the first available ID.  The default buffer size
is used (see \fInline\fP command below).
E 11
D 8
The
E 8
I 8
.IP
D 9
Note, only fully visible windows can be created this way.
E 9
I 9
Only fully visible windows can be created this way.
E 9
E 8
E 7
E 6
.TP
D 11
.B c[1-9]
D 2
Close the window [1-9].  The process in the window is sent
the hangup signal (see kill(1,2)).  \fICsh\fP(1) should
E 2
I 2
D 6
Close the window \fI[1-9]\fP.  The process in the window is sent
E 6
I 6
Close window \fI[1-9]\fP.  The process in the window is sent
E 6
the hangup signal (see \fIkill (1)\fP).  \fICsh (1)\fP should
E 11
I 11
.B c#
Close window \fI#\fP.  The process in the window is sent
the hangup signal (see \fIkill\fP (1)).  \fICsh\fP (1) should
E 11
E 2
handle this signal correctly and cause no problems.
.TP
D 11
.B C
D 2
Close all windows with no processes.
.TP
.B Z
E 2
Close all windows.
.TP
I 8
.B m[1-9]
D 9
Move window \fI[1-9]\fP to another location.  The same keys as
those for the ``w'' command are used to input the new position.  The
E 9
I 9
Move window \fI[1-9]\fP to another location.  A box in the shape
E 11
I 11
.B m#
Move window \fI#\fP to another location.  A box in the shape
E 11
of the window is drawn on
the screen to indicate the new position of the window, and the same keys as
D 11
those for the ``w'' command are used to position the box.  The
E 11
I 11
those for the \fIw\fP command are used to position the box.  The
E 11
E 9
window can be moved partially off-screen.
.TP
D 11
.B M[1-9]
Move window \fI[1-9]\fP to its previous position.
E 11
I 11
.B M#
Move window \fI#\fP to its previous position.
E 11
.TP
E 8
D 2
.B Q
E 2
I 2
D 11
.B S
E 2
Show all windows.  Each window is brought to the top in sequence,
with the terminal cursor placed on its label.  Typing escape
D 3
at this point will select this window as the current window.
Return will let you see the next one.  This command is useful
E 3
I 3
at this point will select the displayed window as the current window.
D 9
Return will display the next one.  This command is useful
E 3
when there are a large number of windows and some are completely
E 9
I 9
Return will display the next one.  This command is sometimes confusing,
but useful when there are a large number of windows and some are completely
E 9
D 2
obscured by others.
E 2
I 2
hidden by others.
E 11
I 11
.B s#
Change the size of window \fI#\fP.  The user is prompted
to enter the new lower right corner of the window.  A box
is drawn to indicate the new window size.  The same
keys used in \fIw\fP and \fIm\fP are used to enter the position.
E 11
E 2
.TP
I 6
D 11
.B L
D 9
List all windows.  A special window is opened and all user windows are
listed in it with their labels.
E 9
I 9
List all windows with their labels and the states of their shell processes.
E 11
I 11
.B S#
Change window \fI#\fP to its previous size.
E 11
E 9
.TP
.B ^Y
Scroll the current window up by one line.
.TP
.B ^E
Scroll the current window down by one line.
.TP
E 6
D 2
.B e
Set the escape character.
.TP
.B R
Normally, windows are updated only when all keyboard inputs and
program outputs are processed.  This command forces the
current window to refresh after every new line and every
line deletion and insertion.  In this mode, the window
will operates in a more terminal like manner, but considerably
more CPU time will be consumed.
.TP
.B r
Cancels the \fB``R''\fP command on the current window.
.TP
E 2
.B ^U
Scroll the current window up by half the window size.
.TP
.B ^D
Scroll the current window down by half the window size.
.TP
.B ^B
Scroll the current window up by the full window size.
.TP
.B ^F
Scroll the current window down by the full window size.
.TP
.B h
Move the cursor of the current window left by one column.
.TP
.B j
Move the cursor of the current window down by one line.
.TP
.B k
Move the cursor of the current window up by one line.
.TP
.B l
Move the cursor of the current window right by one column.
.TP
I 8
D 11
.B v
List all variables.  All currently defined variables are listed
with their values.
E 11
I 11
.B ^S
Stop output in the current window.
E 11
.TP
I 11
.B ^Q
Start output in the current window.
.TP
E 11
E 8
D 2
.B ^L
Redraw the screen.
E 2
I 2
.B :
D 8
Enter a long command.
E 8
I 8
D 9
Enter a line of long command statements.
E 9
I 9
Enter a line to be executed as long commands.  Normal line
editing characters (erase character, erase word, erase line) are
supported.
I 11
.SH "LONG COMMANDS"
Long commands are a sequence of statements
parsed much like a programming language, with a syntax
similar to that of C.  Numeric and string expressions and variables
are supported, as well as conditional statements.
E 11
E 9
E 8
.PP
I 8
D 9
The simple long command consists of a command name followed by
a list of arguments, terminated with newline or ``;''.  The arguments
can be numeric or string expressions.  Boolean values are represented
by a numeric value not equal to zero.  The supported operators in increasing
E 9
I 9
D 11
Long commands.  A long command is either a conditional statement
or a simple command.  The simple long command consists of a
command name followed by
a list of arguments, terminated with newline or ``;''.  A command can
be continued on the next line by ending the first line with ``\\''. The
arguments can be numeric or string expressions.  Window supports both numeric
and string values.  A string is any word beginning with a letter or
``_'', followed by letters, digits, or ``_''.  Alternately, strings
can be quoted in ``"'' to include non-alphanumeric characters.  Numeric
values are simple strings of digits.  Boolean
values are represented by a numeric value not equal to zero.  The supported operators in increasing
E 9
precedence are
E 11
I 11
There are two data types: string and number.  A string is a sequence
of letters or digits beginning with a letter.  ``_'' and ``.'' are
considered letters.  Alternately, non-alphanumeric characters can
be included in strings by quoting them in ``"'' or escaping them
with ``\\''.  In addition, the ``\\'' sequences of C are supported,
both inside and outside quotes (e.g., ``\\n'' is a new line,
``\\r'' a carriage return).  For example, these are legal strings:
abcde01234, "&#$^*&#", ab"$#"cd, ab\\$\\#cd, "/usr/ucb/window".
.PP
A number is an integer value in one of three forms:
a decimal number, an octal number preceded by ``0'',
or a hexadecimal number preceded by ``0x'' or ``0X''.  The natural
machine integer size is used (i.e., the signed integer type
of the C compiler).  As in C, a non-zero number represents
a boolean true.
.PP
The character ``#'' begins a comment which terminates at the
end of the line.
.PP
A statement is either a conditional or an expression.  Expression
statements are terminated with a new line or ``;''.  To continue
an expression on the next line, terminate the first line with ``\\''.
.SH "CONDITIONAL STATEMENT"
\fIWindow\fP has a single control structure:
the fully bracketed if statement in the form
.nf
	if <expr> then
		<statement>
		. . .
	elsif <expr> then
		<statement>
		. . .
	else
		<statement>
		. . .
	endif
.fi
The \fIelse\fP and \fIelsif\fP parts are optional, and the latter can
be repeated any number of times.  \fI<Expr>\fP must be numeric.
.SH EXPRESSIONS
Expressions in \fIwindow\fP are similar to those in the
C language, with most C operators supported on numeric
operands.  In addition, some are overloaded to operate on strings.
.PP
When an expression is used as a statement, its value is discarded
after evaluation.  Therefore, only expressions with side
effects (assignments and function calls) are useful as statements.
.PP
Single valued (no arrays) variables are supported, of both
numeric and string values.  Some variables are predefined.  They
are listed below.
.PP
The operators in order of increasing precedence:
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B "boolean_expr ? expr1 : expr2"
Returns \fIexpr1\fP
if \fIboolean_expr\fP is true, \fIexpr2\fP otherwise.
E 11
I 11
.B <expr1> = <expr2>
Assignment.  The variable of name \fI<expr1>\fP, which must be string valued,
is assigned the result of \fI<expr2>\fP.  Returns the value of \fI<expr2>\fP.
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B boolean_expr1 || boolean_expr2
Logical or.  Short circuit evaluation is supported.
E 11
I 11
.B <expr1> ? <expr2> : <expr3>
Returns the value of \fI<expr2>\fP if \fI<expr1>\fP evaluates true
(non-zero numeric value); returns the value of \fI<expr3>\fP otherwise.  Only
one of \fI<expr2>\fP and \fI<expr3>\fP is evaluated.  \fI<Expr1>\fP must
be numeric.
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B boolean_expr1 && boolean_expr2
Logical and, with short circuit evaluation.
E 11
I 11
.B <expr1> || <expr2>
Logical or.  Numeric values only.  Short circuit evaluation is supported
(i.e., if \fI<expr1>\fP evaluates true, then \fI<expr2>\fP is not evaluated).
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B numeric_expr1 | numeric_expr2
Bitwise or.
E 11
I 11
.B <expr1> && <expr2>
Logical and with short circuit evaluation.  Numeric values only.
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B numeric_expr1 ^ numeric_expr2
Bitwise exclusive-or.
E 11
I 11
.B <expr1> | <expr2>
Bitwise or.  Numeric values only.
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B numeric_expr1 & numeric_expr2
Bitwise and.
E 11
I 11
.B <expr1> ^ <expr2>
Bitwise exclusive or.  Numeric values only.
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B expr1 == expr2, expr1 != expr2
Comparison (equal and not-equal, respectively).  The boolean
result of the comparison is returned.  The arguments can be numeric
or strings.
E 11
I 11
.B <expr1> & <expr2>
Bitwise and.  Numeric values only.
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B expr1 < expr2, expr1 > expr2, expr1 <= expr2, expr1 >= expr2
Less than, greater than, less than or equal to, greater than or equal to.
E 11
I 11
.B <expr1> == <expr2>, <expr1> != <expr2>
Comparison (equal and not equal, respectively).  The boolean
result (either 1 or 0) of the comparison is returned.  The
operands can be numeric or string valued.  One string operand
forces the other to be converted to a string in necessary.
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B numeric_expr1 << numeric_expr2, numeric_expr1 >> numeric_expr2,
\fINumeric_expr1\fP is bit shifted left (or right) by \fInumeric_expr2\fP
bits.
E 11
I 11
.B <expr1> < <expr2>, <expr1> > <expr2>, <expr1> <= <expr2>, <expr1> >= <expr2>
Less than, greater than, less than or equal to,
greater than or equal to.  Both numeric and string values, with
automatic conversion as above.
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B numeric_expr1 + numeric_expr2, numeric_expr1 - numeric_expr2
Addition, subtraction.
E 11
I 11
.B <expr1> << <expr2>, <expr1> >> <expr2>
If both operands are numbers, \fI<expr1>\fP is bit
shifted left (or right) by \fI<expr2>\fP bits.  If \fI<expr1>\fP is
a string, then its first (or last) \fI<expr2>\fP characters are
returns (if \fI<expr2>\fP is also a string, then its length is used
in place of its value).
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B numeric_expr1 * numeric_expr2, numeric_expr1 / numeric_expr2, numeric_expr1 % numeric_expr2
Multiplication, division, modulo.
E 11
I 11
.B <expr1> + <expr2>, <expr1> - <expr2>
Addition and subtraction on numbers.  For ``+'', if one
argument is a string, then the other is converted to a string,
and the result is the concatenation of the two strings.
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B - numeric_expr, + numeric_expr, ~ numeric_expr, ! boolean_expr
Unary minus, unary plus, bitwise complement, logical complement.
.PP
E 8
D 3
A long command consists of a command name followed by zero
or more arguments, separated by spaces or tabs.  They can
be read in from files and executed (see the \fIsource\fP
command below), or entered interactively with the \fB``:''\fP
command.
E 3
I 3
The long commands:
E 11
I 11
.B <expr1> * <expr2>, <expr1> / <expr2>, <expr1> % <expr2>
Multiplication, division, modulo.  Numbers only.
E 11
E 3
.TP
D 11
.B escape C
Set the escape character to \fIC\fP.
E 11
I 11
.B -<expr>, ~<expr>, !<expr>, $<expr>, $?<expr>
The first three are unary minus, bitwise complement and logical complement
on numbers only.  The operator, ``$'', takes \fI<expr>\fP and returns
the value of the variable of that name.  If \fI<expr>\fP is numeric
with value \fIn\fP and it appears within an alias macro (see below),
then it refers to the nth argument of the alias invocation.  ``$?''
tests for the existence of the variable \fI<expr>\fP, and returns 1
if it exists or 0 otherwise.
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B terse [off]
Turn on (or off) terse mode.  In terse mode, the command window
stays hidden even in command mode, and errors are reported by
sounding the terminal's bell.
E 11
I 11
.B <expr>(<arglist>)
Function call.  \fI<Expr>\fP must be a string that is the unique
prefix of the name of a builtin \fIwindow\fP function
or the full name of a user defined alias macro.  In the case of a builtin
function, \fI<arglist>\fP can be in one of two forms:
.br
	<expr1>, <expr2>, . . .
.br
	argname1 = <expr1>, argname2 = <expr2>, . . .
.br
The two forms can in fact be intermixed, but the result is
unpredictable.  Most arguments can be omitted; default values will
be supplied for them.  The \fIargnames\fP can be unique prefixes
of the the argument names.  The commas separating
arguments are used only to disambiguate, and can usually be omitted.
.IP
Only the first argument form is valid for user defined aliases.  Aliases
are defined using the \fIalias\fP builtin function (see below).  Arguments
are accessed via a variant of the variable mechanism (see ``$'' operator
above).
.IP
Most functions return value, but some are used for side effect
only and so must be used as statements.  When a function or an alias is used
as a statement, the parenthesis surrounding
the argument list may be omitted.  Aliases return no value.
.SH "BUILTIN FUNCTIONS"
The arguments are listed by name in their natural
order.  Optional arguments are in square brackets (``[ ]'').  Arguments
that have no names are in angle brackets (``<>'').
E 11
.TP
D 7
.B window row col nrow ncol
E 7
I 7
D 11
.B window row col nrow ncol [nline]
E 7
Open a window with upper left corner at \fIrow\fP, \fIcol\fP
D 7
and size \fInrow\fP, \fIncol\fP.
E 7
I 7
and size \fInrow\fP, \fIncol\fP.  If \fInline\fP is specified,
then that many lines is allocated for the text buffer.  Otherwise,
the default buffer size is used.  Using a \fB``*''\fP in place of
\fIrow\fP, \fIcol\fP, \fInrow\fP, or \fIncol\fP gives, respectively,
the up, left, down, or right extremes of the screen.
E 11
I 11
.B alias([<string>], [<string-list>])
If no argument is given, all currently defined alias macros are
listed.  Otherwise, \fI<string>\fP is defined as an alias,
with expansion \fI<string-list>\fP.  The previous definition of
\fI<string>\fP, if any, is returned.  Default for \fI<string-list>\fP
is no change.
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B buffer nline
E 11
I 11
.B close(<window-list>)
Close the windows specified in \fI<window-list>\fP.  If \fI<window-list>\fP
is the word \fIall\fP, than all windows are closed.  No value is returned.
.TP
.B cursormodes([modes])
Set the window cursor to \fImodes\fP.  \fIModes\fP is the bitwise
or of the mode bits defined as the variables \fIm_ul\fP (underline),
\fIm_rev\fP (reverse video), \fIm_blk\fP (blinking),
and \fIm_grp\fP (graphics, terminal dependent).  Return
value is the previous modes.  Default is no change.
For example, cursor($m_rev|$m_blk) sets the window cursors to blinking
reverse video.
.TP
.B echo([window], [<string-list>])
Write the list of strings, \fI<string-list>\fP, to \fIwindow\fP, separated
by spaces and terminated with a new line.  The strings are only
D 17
displayed in the window, the process in the window are not
E 17
I 17
displayed in the window, the processes in the window are not
E 17
involved (see \fIwrite\fP below).  No value is returned.  Default
is the current window.
.TP
.B escape([escapec])
Set the escape character to \fIescape-char\fP.  Returns the old
escape character as a one character string.  Default is no
change.  \fPEscapec\fP can be a string of a single character, or
in the form \fI^X\fP, meaning control-\fIX\fP.
.TP
.B foreground([window], [flag])
Move \fIwindow\fP in or out of foreground.  \fIFlag\fP
can be one of \fIon\fP, \fIoff\fP,
\fIyes\fP, \fIno\fP, \fItrue\fP, or \fIfalse\fP, with obvious
meanings, or it can be a numeric expression, in which case
a non-zero value is true.  Returns the old foreground flag
as a number.  Default for \fIwindow\fP is the current window,
default for \fIflag\fP is no change.
.TP
.B label([window], [label])
Set the label of \fIwindow\fP to \fIlabel\fP.  Returns the old
label as a string.  Default for \fIwindow\fP is the current
window, default for \fIlabel\fP is no change.  To turn
off a label, set it to an empty string ("").
.TP
.B list()
No arguments.  List the identifiers and labels of all windows.  No
value is returned.
.TP
.B nline([nline])
E 11
Set the default buffer size to \fInline\fP.  Initially, it is
D 11
48 lines.  Using a very large buffer can slow the program down
E 11
I 11
48 lines.  Returns the old default buffer size.  Default is
no change.  Using a very large buffer can slow the program down
E 11
considerably.
E 7
.TP
D 11
.B label [1-9] string
D 6
Label the window \fI[1-9]\fP with \fIstring\fP.  This is in addition
E 6
I 6
Label window \fI[1-9]\fP with \fIstring\fP.  This is in addition
E 6
D 3
to the numeric label which is always displayed.
E 3
I 3
to the numeric label that is always displayed.
E 11
I 11
.B select([window])
Make \fIwindow\fP the current window.  The previous current window
is returned.  Default is no change.
E 11
E 3
.TP
D 11
.B %[1-9]
Make window \fI[1-9]\fP the current window.
E 11
I 11
.B shell([<string-list>])
Set the default window shell program to \fI<string-list>\fP.  Returns
the first string in the old shell setting.  Default is no change.  Initially,
the default shell is taken from the environment variable \fISHELL\fP.
E 11
.TP
I 6
D 11
.B write [1-9] string
Write \fIstring\fP to window \fI[1-9]\fP.
E 11
I 11
.B source(filename)
Read and execute the long commands in \fIfilename\fP.  Returns
-1 if the file cannot be read, 0 otherwise.
E 11
.TP
D 11
.B close [1-9] ...
Close window \fI[1-9]\fP.  More than one window can be specified.
If no window is given, then all windows are closed.
E 11
I 11
.B terse([flag])
Set terse mode to \fIflag\fP.  In terse mode, the command window
stays hidden even in command mode, and errors are reported by
sounding the terminal's bell.  \fIFlag\fP can take on the same
values as in \fIforeground\fP above.  Returns the old terse flag.
Default is no change.
E 11
.TP
E 6
D 11
.B source file
D 3
Execute the commands in \fIfile\fP.  Recursive
E 3
I 3
Read and execute the long commands in \fIfile\fP.  Recursive
E 3
\fIsource\fP is not allowed.
E 11
I 11
.B unalias(alias)
Undefine \fIalias\fP.  Returns -1 if \fIalias\fP does not exist,
0 otherwise.
.TP
.B unset(variable)
Undefine \fIvariable\fP.  Returns -1 if \fIvariable\fP does not exist,
0 otherwise.
.TP
.B variables()
No arguments.  List all variables.  No value is returned.
.TP
.B window([row], [column], [nrow], [ncol], [nline], [frame],
.B [pty], [mapnl], [shell])
.br
Open a window with upper left corner at \fIrow\fP, \fIcolumn\fP
and size \fInrow\fP, \fIncol\fP.  If \fInline\fP is specified,
then that many lines are allocated for the text buffer.  Otherwise,
the default buffer size is used.  Default values for
\fIrow\fP, \fIcolumn\fP, \fInrow\fP, and \fIncol\fP are, respectively,
the upper, left-most, lower, or right-most extremes of the
screen.  \fIFrame\fP, \fIpty\fP, and \fImapnl\fP are flag values
interpreted in the same way as the argument to \fIforeground\fP (see above);
they mean, respectively, put a frame around this window (default true),
allocate pseudo-terminal for this window rather than socketpair (default
true), and map new line characters in this window to carriage return
and line feed (default true if socketpair is used, false otherwise).
\fIShell\fP is a list of strings that will be used as the shell
program to place in the window (default is the program specified
by \fIshell\fP, see below).  The created window's identifier
is returned as a number.
.TP
.B write([window], [<string-list>])
Send the list of strings, \fI<string-list>\fP, to \fIwindow\fP, separated
by spaces but not terminated with a new line.  The strings are actually
given to the window as input.  No value is returned.  Default
is the current window.
.SH "PREDEFINED VARIABLES"
These variables are for information only.  Redefining them does
not affect the internal operation of \fIwindow\fP.
.TP
.B baud
The baud rate as a number between 50 and 38400.
.TP
.B modes
The display modes (reverse video, underline, blinking, graphics)
supported by the physical terminal.  The value of \fImodes\fP is
the bitwise or of some of the one bit values, \fIm_blk\fP, \fIm_grp\fP,
\fIm_rev\fP, and \fIm_ul\fP (see below).  These values are useful
in setting the window cursors' modes (see \fIcursormodes\fP above).
.TP
.B m_blk
The blinking mode bit.
.TP
.B m_grp
The graphics mode bit (not very useful).
.TP
.B m_rev
The reverse video mode bit.
.TP
.B m_ul
The underline mode bit.
.TP
.B ncol
The number of columns on the physical screen.
.TP
.B nrow
The number of rows on the physical screen.
.TP
.B term
The terminal type.  The standard name, found in the second name
field of the terminal's \fITERMCAP\fP entry, is used.
E 11
D 6
.PP
When \fIwindow\fP starts up, the file \fI.windowrc\fP in the
user's home directory is checked.  If it exists, then the
D 3
commands contained in it are executed.  All long commands
are legal.  If \fI.windowrc\fP does not exist, then two
E 3
I 3
commands contained in it are executed (using \fIsource\fP).
If \fI.windowrc\fP does not exist, then two
E 3
equal sized windows are created by default.
E 6
E 2
.SH FILES
.ta 15
D 2
~/.windowcf	startup configuration file.
E 2
I 2
~/.windowrc	startup command file.
.br
E 2
D 11
/dev/ptyp?	pseudo-terminal devices.
E 11
I 11
/dev/[pt]ty[pq]?	pseudo-terminal devices.
E 11
D 3
.SH SEE ALSO
E 3
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Should be self explanatory.
.SH BUGS
D 8
When all pseudo-terminal devices are used, the \fB``w''\fP
D 2
command will fail mysteriously.
E 2
I 2
command fails mysteriously.
E 2
.PP
E 8
D 11
When a window is scrolled or the cursor moved, output from
the process in the window will be displayed at the new cursor
position.  This is consistent with real terminals but
not always desirable.
E 11
E 1
