h28983
s 00009/00000/00052
d D 1.2 2011/12/28 03:14:34 msokolov 2 1
c EOF handling clarified
e
s 00052/00000/00000
d D 1.1 2011/12/28 02:36:28 msokolov 1 0
c date and time created 2011/12/28 02:36:28 by msokolov
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (IFCTF) %E%
.\"
.TH BINZONE 5 "%Q%" MSDNS "MSDNS Internals Manual"
.SH NAME
binzone \- MSDNS binary zone files
.SH DESCRIPTION
An MSDNS binary zone file carries exactly the same semantics as a
standard RFC\ 1035 master file: a linear sequential list of arbitrary DNS
resource records (RRs) and nothing more.
However, having zone files stored in binary form instead of text
greatly reduces the amount of parsing work the
.IR msdns (8)
core daemon has to do when loading a zone, and allows it to treat
many more RR types as uninterpreted binary blobs.
.PP
Each binary zone file consists of a fixed 8-byte \%\fB"BINZONE\e200"\fP
identifying header followed by a directly abutted sequence of binary RRs.
Each RR appears in the same standard form as in DNS protocol messages,
consisting of a variable-length owner field followed by the fixed part
of 10 bytes followed by the
.B RDATA
field whose length is indicated in the
fixed part exactly as in the standard DNS protocol messages.
The 2-byte
.BR TYPE ,
.B CLASS
and
.B RDLENGTH
fields and the 4-byte
.B TTL
field appear in the standard network byte order, i.e., most significant
byte first.
All domain names (RR owner names and any domain names appearing in
.BR RDATA )
are strings of binary labels (label length octets followed by label body
octets, ending in a null label) and must be uncompressed.
Domain name compression is disallowed both for robustness and because
there is no message structure to which pointers could be made relative.
.PP
I 2
Encountering an end-of-file
.RB ( EOF )
where one would otherwise expect the first label length octet of an
RR owner name is normal, and indicates the end of the sequence of RRs
represented by the binary zone file.
An
.B EOF
encountered anywhere else (in the middle of an RR) is an error.
.PP
E 2
The \%\fB"BINZONE\e200"\fP identifying header has been added to provide
more helpful diagnostics when a user has mistakenly supplied an ASCII master
file or some other file type where a binary zone file is expected;
otherwise attempting to parse text files as if they contained
binary RRs would result in very cryptic and unhelpful error messages.
.PP
Standard RFC\ 1035 master files are compiled into MSDNS binary zone files with
.IR zonecomp (8);
a binary zone file can be ``disassembled'' back into the standard RFC\ 1035
ASCII form with
.IR zonedump (8).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
zonecomp(8), zonedump(8), RFC 1035
E 1
