h33741
s 00005/00002/00056
d D 6.2 86/03/09 18:53:32 karels 4 3
c machine/param.h is gone
e
s 00001/00001/00057
d D 6.1 85/05/15 18:23:18 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00034/00018/00024
d D 5.1 85/05/15 18:23:01 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00042/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 18:22:49 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH CORE 5 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH CORE 5  "27 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH CORE 5  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
core \- format of memory image file
I 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 4
.B #include <machine/param.h>
E 4
I 4
.B #include <sys/param.h>
E 4
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
UNIX
writes out a memory image of a terminated
process when any of various errors occur.
See
.IR signal (2)
for the list of reasons;
the most common are memory violations, illegal
instructions, bus errors, and user-generated
quit signals.
E 2
I 2
The UNIX System writes out a memory image of a terminated
process when any of various errors occur.  See
.IR sigvec (2)
for the list of reasons; the most common are memory violations, illegal
instructions, bus errors, and user-generated quit signals.
E 2
The memory image is called `core' and is written in the process's
D 2
working directory (provided it can be; normal
access controls apply).
E 2
I 2
working directory (provided it can be; normal access controls apply).
E 2
.PP
The maximum size of a
.I core
file is limited by
D 2
.IR vlimit (2) .
E 2
I 2
.IR setrlimit (2).
E 2
Files which would be larger than the limit are not created.
.PP
D 2
The core file consists of the \fIu.\fR area, which currently consists
of 6 pages, beginning with a \fIuser\fR structure as given in
/usr/include/sys/user.h.
The kernel stack grows from the end of this 6 page region.
E 2
I 2
The core file consists of the
.I u.
area, whose size (in pages) is
defined by the UPAGES manifest in the
D 4
.RI < machine/param.h >
E 4
I 4
.RI < sys/param.h >
E 4
file.  The 
.I u.
area starts with a 
.I user
structure as given in
.RI < sys/user.h >.
E 2
The remainder of the core file consists first of the data pages and then
the stack pages of the process image.
I 2
The amount of data space image in the core file is given (in pages) by the
variable
.I u_dsize
in the
.I u.
area.
The amount of stack image in the core file is given (in pages) by the
variable 
.I u_ssize
in the 
.I u.
area.
I 4
The size of a ``page'' is given by the constant NBPG
(also from
.RI < sys/param.h >).
E 4
E 2
.PP
In general the debugger
.IR adb (1)
is sufficient to deal with core images.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
adb(1), signal(2), vlimit(2)
E 2
I 2
adb(1), dbx(1), sigvec(2), setrlimit(2)
E 2
E 1
