h50155
s 00002/00002/00209
d D 6.2 85/06/18 22:09:30 mckusick 4 3
c dumprestor.h moves to /usr/include/protocols/dumprestore.h
e
s 00001/00001/00210
d D 6.1 85/05/15 18:11:50 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00022/00028/00189
d D 5.1 85/05/15 18:11:40 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00217/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 18:11:32 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH DUMP 5 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH DUMP 5  "18 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH DUMP 5  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
dump, ddate \- incremental dump format
E 2
I 2
dump, dumpdates \- incremental dump format
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
D 2
.B #include <sys/ino.h>
E 2
I 2
.B #include <sys/inode.h>
E 2
.br
D 4
.B #include <dumprestor.h>
E 4
I 4
.B #include <protocols/dumprestore.h>
E 4
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tapes used by
.I dump
and
D 2
.IR restor (1)
E 2
I 2
.IR restore (8)
E 2
contain:
.nf
.IP ""
a header record
two groups of bit map records
a group of records describing directories
a group of records describing files
.fi
.PP
The format of the header record and of the first
record of each description as given in the
include file
D 4
.I <dumprestor.h>
E 4
I 4
.I <protocols/dumprestore.h>
E 4
is:
.PP
.nf
#define NTREC   	10
#define MLEN    	16
#define MSIZ    	4096

#define TS_TAPE 	1
#define TS_INODE	2
#define TS_BITS 	3
#define TS_ADDR 	4
#define TS_END  	5
#define TS_CLRI 	6
#define MAGIC   	(int) 60011
#define CHECKSUM	(int) 84446

struct	spcl {
	int		c_type;
	time_t		c_date;
	time_t		c_ddate;
	int		c_volume;
	daddr_t		c_tapea;
	ino_t		c_inumber;
	int		c_magic;
	int		c_checksum;
	struct		dinode		c_dinode;
	int		c_count;
	char		c_addr[BSIZE];
} spcl;

struct	idates {
	char		id_name[16];
	char		id_incno;
	time_t		id_ddate;
};

#define	DUMPOUTFMT	"%-16s %c %s"		/* for printf */
						/* name, incno, ctime(date) */
#define	DUMPINFMT	"%16s %c %[^\en]\en"	/* inverse for scanf */
.fi
.PP
D 2
.I NTREC
is the number of 1024 byte records in a physical
E 2
I 2
NTREC is the number of 1024 byte records in a physical
E 2
tape block.
D 2
.I MLEN
is the number of bits in a bit map word.
.I MSIZ 
is the number of bit map words.
E 2
I 2
MLEN is the number of bits in a bit map word.
MSIZ is the number of bit map words.
E 2
.PP
The
D 2
.I TS_
entries are used in the
E 2
I 2
TS_ entries are used in the
E 2
.I c_type
field to indicate what sort of header
this is.
The types and their meanings are as follows:
.TP 13
TS_TAPE
Tape volume label
.PD 0
.TP
TS_INODE
A file or directory follows.
The
.I c_dinode
field is a copy of the disk inode and contains
bits telling what sort of file this is.
.TP
TS_BITS
A bit map follows.
This bit map has a one bit
for each inode that was dumped.
.TP
TS_ADDR
A subrecord of a file description.
See
.I c_addr
below.
.TP
TS_END
End of tape record.
.TP
TS_CLRI
A bit map follows.
This bit map contains a zero bit for
all inodes that were empty on the file system when dumped.
.TP
MAGIC
All header records have this number in
.I c_magic.
.TP
CHECKSUM
Header records checksum to this value.
.PD
.PP
The fields of the header structure are as follows:
.TP 13
c_type
The type of the header.
.PD 0
.TP
c_date
The date the dump was taken.
.TP
c_ddate
The date the file system was dumped from.
.TP
c_volume
The current volume number of the dump.
.TP
c_tapea
The current number of this (1024-byte) record.
.TP
c_inumber
The number of the inode being dumped if this
D 2
is of type
.I TS_INODE.
E 2
I 2
is of type TS_INODE.
E 2
.TP
c_magic
D 2
This contains the value
.I MAGIC
E 2
I 2
This contains the value MAGIC
E 2
above, truncated as needed.
.TP
c_checksum
This contains whatever value is needed to
D 2
make the record sum to 
.I CHECKSUM.
E 2
I 2
make the record sum to CHECKSUM.
E 2
.TP
c_dinode
This is a copy of the inode as it appears on the
file system; see
D 2
.IR filsys (5).
E 2
I 2
.IR fs (5).
E 2
.TP
c_count
The count of characters in
.I c_addr.
.TP
c_addr
An array of characters describing the blocks of the
dumped file.
A character is zero if the block associated with that character was not
present on the file system, otherwise the character is non-zero.
If the block was not present on the file system, no block was dumped;
the block will be restored as a hole in the file.
If there is not sufficient space in this record to describe
D 2
all of the blocks in a file,
.I TS_ADDR
E 2
I 2
all of the blocks in a file, TS_ADDR
E 2
records will be scattered through the file, each one
picking up where the last left off.
.PD
.PP
Each volume except the last ends with a tapemark (read as an end
of file).
D 2
The last volume ends with a
.I TS_END
E 2
I 2
The last volume ends with a TS_END
E 2
record and then the tapemark.
.PP
The structure
.I idates
D 2
describes an entry of the file
.I /etc/ddate
E 2
I 2
describes an entry in the file
.I /etc/dumpdates
E 2
where dump history is kept.
The fields of the structure are:
.TP \w'TS_INODE\ 'u
id_name
The dumped filesystem is
.RI `/dev/ id_nam'.
.PD 0
.TP
id_incno
The level number of the dump tape;
see
D 2
.IR dump (1).
E 2
I 2
.IR dump (8).
E 2
.TP
id_ddate
The date of the incremental dump in system format
see
.IR types (5).
.PD
.SH FILES
D 2
/etc/ddate
E 2
I 2
/etc/dumpdates
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
dump(8), dumpdir(8), restor(8), filsys(5), types(5)
E 2
I 2
dump(8),
restore(8),
fs(5),
types(5)
E 2
E 1
