h61604
s 00001/00001/00046
d D 6.1 85/05/15 18:47:20 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00017/00007/00030
d D 5.1 85/05/15 18:46:59 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00037/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 18:46:33 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH MTAB 5 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH MTAB 5  "26 June 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH MTAB 5  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
mtab \- mounted file system table
I 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <fstab.h>
.br
.B "#include <mtab.h>"
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mtab
resides in directory
.I /etc
and contains a table of devices mounted by the
.I mount
command.
.I Umount
removes entries.
.PP
D 2
Each entry is 64 bytes long;
the first 32 are the null-padded name of the
place where the special file is mounted;
the second 32 are the null-padded name of the special
file.
E 2
I 2
The table is a series of
.I mtab
structures, as defined in
.IR < mtab.h >.
Each entry contains the null-padded name of
the place where the special file is mounted,
the null-padded name of the special file, and
a type field, one of those defined in
.RI < fstab.h >.
E 2
The special file has all its directories
stripped away;
that is, everything through the last `/' is thrown
D 2
away.
E 2
I 2
away.  The type field indicates if the file system
is mounted read-only, read-write, or read-write with
disk quotas enabled.
E 2
.PP
This table is present only so people can look at it.
It does not matter to
.I mount
if there are duplicated entries nor
to
.I umount
if a name cannot be found.
.SH FILES
/etc/mtab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount(8)
E 1
