h08347
s 00001/00001/00053
d D 5.6 87/09/14 15:54:44 bostic 6 5
c fix NAME entry
e
s 00023/00005/00031
d D 5.5 86/05/15 11:25:37 bloom 5 4
c fix defaults and mention that this is not needed
e
s 00001/00001/00035
d D 5.4 86/04/10 14:38:12 kjd 4 3
c Change paper title
e
s 00011/00011/00025
d D 5.3 86/03/21 22:20:24 kjd 3 2
c clean up
e
s 00000/00006/00036
d D 5.2 86/01/07 13:35:31 kjd 2 1
c Remove bugs section
e
s 00042/00000/00000
d D 5.1 86/01/07 13:30:55 kjd 1 0
c date and time created 86/01/07 13:30:55 by kjd
e
u
U
t
T
I 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1986 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
E 5
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 5
.TH RESOLVER 5 "1 January 1986"
E 5
I 5
.TH RESOLVER 5 "%Q%"
E 5
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 6
resolver configuration file
E 6
I 6
resolver \- resolver configuration file
E 6
I 5
.SH SYNOPSIS
/etc/resolv.conf
E 5
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The resolver configuration file contains information that is read
D 5
by the resolver routines the first time they are invoked in a process.
E 5
I 5
by the resolver routines the first time they are invoked by a process.
E 5
The file is designed to be human readable and contains a list of
D 3
name-value pairs which provide various types of resolver information.
E 3
I 3
name-value pairs that provide various types of resolver information.
E 3
.LP
I 5
On a normally configured system this file should not be necessary.
The only name server to be queried will be on the local machine and 
the domain name is retrieved from the system.
.LP
E 5
The different configuration options are:
.TP
\fBnameserver\fP
D 3
followed by the Internet address (in dot notation) of a nameserver
that the resolver should query.  At least one nameserver should be
listed.  Up to MAXNS (currently 3) nameservers may be listed, in which
E 3
I 3
followed by the Internet address (in dot notation) of a name server
that the resolver should query.  At least one name server should be
listed.  Up to MAXNS (currently 3) name servers may be listed, in that
E 3
case the resolver library queries tries them in the order listed.
I 5
If no \fBnameserver\fP entries are present,
the default is to use the name server on the local machine.
E 5
D 3
(The algorithm used is to try a nameserver, and if the query times out,
try the next, until out of nameservers, then repeat trying all the nameservers
until a maximum number of retries has been made).
E 3
I 3
(The algorithm used is to try a name server, and if the query times out,
D 5
try the next, until out of name servers, then repeat trying all the name servers
E 5
I 5
try the next, until out of name servers,
then repeat trying all the name servers
E 5
until a maximum number of retries are made).
E 3
.TP
\fBdomain\fP
D 3
followed by a domain name, which is
the default domain to append to names which do not have a dot in them.
E 3
I 3
followed by a domain name, that is
the default domain to append to names that do not have a dot in them.
E 3
D 5
This defaults to empty (the root domain).
E 5
I 5
If no \fBdomain\fP entries are present, the domain returned by
\fIgethostname\fP\|(2) is used (everything after the first `.').
Finally, if the host name does not contain a domain part, the root
domain is assumed.
E 5
.LP
The name value pair must appear on a single line, and the keyword
(e.g. \fBnameserver\fP) must start the line.  The value follows
D 3
the keyword, separated by whitespace.
E 3
I 3
the keyword, separated by white space.
E 3
.SH FILES
.I /etc/resolv.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
D 3
gethostent(3n), resolver(3), named(8)
E 3
I 3
D 4
gethostent(3n), resolver(3), named(8), BIND - Operations Guide
E 4
I 4
D 5
gethostent(3n), resolver(3), named(8), Name Server Operations Guide for BIND
E 5
I 5
gethostbyname(3N), resolver(3), named(8)
.br
Name Server Operations Guide for BIND
E 5
E 4
E 3
D 2
.SH BUGS
.LP
There is currently no way to indicate that one address for a host
is preferred over another.  (Solutions are being considered).


E 2
E 1
