h15237
s 00016/00015/00070
d D 6.4 86/05/20 09:36:02 karels 6 5
c bogosity is fixed
e
s 00004/00003/00081
d D 6.3 86/05/17 17:18:31 lepreau 5 4
c only some fields can be quoted.  what a botch
e
s 00022/00010/00062
d D 6.2 86/05/17 16:39:54 lepreau 4 3
c ungarble; enumerate flag and window strings
e
s 00055/00022/00017
d D 6.1 85/05/15 18:16:06 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00019/00019/00020
d D 5.1 85/05/15 18:15:58 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00039/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 18:15:52 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH TTYS 5 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH TTYS 5  "18 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH TTYS 5  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
ttys \- terminal initialization data
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I ttys
D 3
file is read by the
.I init
D 2
program and specifies
which terminal special files are to have
a process created for them which will allow people to
log in.
It contains one line per special file.
E 2
I 2
program and specifies which terminal special files are to have
a process created for them so that people can log in.
E 3
I 3
file contains information that is used by various routines to initialize
and control the use of terminal special files. This information is read
with the
.IR getttyent (3)
library routines.
E 3
There is one line in the 
.I ttys
file per special file.
E 2
D 3
.PP
D 2
The first character of a line is either `0' or `1';
the former causes the line to be ignored,
the latter causes it to be effective.
The second character is used as an argument to
E 2
I 2
The first character of a line in the 
.I ttys
file is either `0' or `1'.  If the first character on the line is a `0', the 
.I init
program ignores that line.  If the first character on the line is a `1', the
.I init
program creates a login process for that line.
The second character on each line is used as an argument to
E 3
I 3
Fields are separated by tabs and/or spaces.
D 4
A field of more than one word may be enclosed by quotes.
E 4
I 4
D 5
A field of more than one word should be enclosed in double quotes.
E 5
I 5
Some fields may contain more than one word and should be enclosed
in double quotes.
E 5
E 4
Blank lines and comments can appear anywhere in the file; comments
D 6
are delimited by `#' and new line. Unspecified fields default to
the empty string or zero as appropriate.
E 6
I 6
are delimited by `#' and new line. Unspecified fields default to null.
E 6
The first field is the terminal's entry in the device directory, /dev.
The second field of the file is the command to execute for the line,
typically
E 3
E 2
.IR getty (8),
D 2
which performs such tasks as baud-rate recognition,
reading the login name,
E 2
I 2
which performs such tasks as baud-rate recognition, reading the login name,
E 2
and calling
D 3
.I login.
D 2
For normal lines,
the character is `0';
E 2
I 2
For normal lines, the character is `0';
E 2
other characters can be used, for example, with hard-wired terminals
D 2
where speed recognition is unnecessary
or which have special characteristics.
E 2
I 2
where speed recognition is unnecessary or which have special characteristics.
E 2
.RI ( Getty
will have to be fixed in such cases.)
D 2
The remainder of the line is the terminal's entry
in the device directory, /dev.
E 2
I 2
The remainder of the line is the terminal's entry in the device directory, /dev.
E 3
I 3
.IR login (1).
D 6
It can be, however, any command you wish, for example
E 6
I 6
It can be, however, any desired command, for example
E 6
D 4
the start up for a window system terminal emulator or maintain other
daemon processes.
The third field is the type of terminal normally connected to the
terminal special file as found in the
E 4
I 4
the start up for a window system terminal emulator or some other
D 5
daemon process.
E 5
I 5
daemon process, and can contain multiple words if quoted.
E 5
The third field is the type of terminal normally connected to that
tty line, as found in the
E 4
.IR termcap (5)
data base file.
D 4
The remaining fields are flags to be set in the
E 4
I 4
The remaining fields set flags in the
E 4
.I ty_status
entry (see
.IR getttyent (3))
D 4
or for a window system process indicated by
the "window" keyword that
.IR init(8)
E 4
I 4
or specify a window system process that
.IR init (8)
E 4
will maintain for the terminal line.
I 4
As flag values,
the strings `on' and `off' specify whether
.I init
should execute the command
given in the second field,
while `secure' in addition to `on' allows root to login on
D 5
this line.  Note that these these flag strings should not be quoted.
E 5
I 5
this line.  These flag fields should not be quoted.
E 5
The string `window=' is followed by a quoted command
string which
.I init
D 6
will execute.
E 6
I 6
will execute before starting
.IR getty .
E 6
E 4
If the line ends in a comment, the comment is included in the
.I ty_comment
field of the ttyent structure.
.PP
Some examples:
.PP
.nf
D 6
console "/etc/getty std.1200" vt100 on secure
ttyd0 "/etc/getty d1200" dialup on
ttyh0 "/etc/getty std.9600" hp2621-nl on
D 4
ttyh1 "/etc/getty std.9600" plugboard on
E 4
I 4
ttyh1 "/etc/getty std.9600" plugboard on John's office
E 4
ttyp0 none network
ttyp1 none network off
ttyv0 "/etc/xpty -L :0" vs100 on window="/etc/X 0"
E 6
I 6
.ta \w'console\ 'u +\w'"/etc/getty std.9600"\ \ \ 'u +\w'hp2621-nl\ \ \ \ 'u +.7i
console	"/etc/getty std.1200"	vt100	on secure
ttyd0	"/etc/getty d1200"	dialup	on	# 555-1234
ttyh0	"/etc/getty std.9600"	hp2621-nl	on	# 254MC
ttyh1	"/etc/getty std.9600"	plugboard	on	# John's office
ttyp0	none	network
ttyp1	none	network	off
ttyv0	"/usr/new/xterm -L :0"	vs100	on window="/usr/new/Xvs100 0"
E 6
.fi
.PP
The first example permits root login on the console at 1200 baud,
the second allows dialup at 1200 baud without root login,
the third and fourth allow login at 9600 baud with terminal types of
"hp2621-nl" and "plugboard" respectively,
the fifth and sixth line are examples of network pseudo ttys, which
D 6
should not have getty enabled on them,
E 6
I 6
should not have
.I getty
enabled on them,
E 6
and the last example shows a terminal emulator and window system
startup entry.
E 3
E 2
.SH FILES
/etc/ttys
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
init(8), getty(8), login(1)
E 2
I 2
D 3
gettytab(5), init(8), getty(8), login(1)
E 3
I 3
D 6
getttyent(3), gettytab(5), init(8), getty(8), login(1)
I 4
.SH BUGS
The parsing of the flags, window, and comment fields is stupid.
E 6
I 6
login(1), getttyent(3), gettytab(5), init(8), getty(8)
E 6
E 4
E 3
E 2
E 1
