h00614
s 00001/00001/00088
d D 6.2 86/05/13 18:59:34 karels 4 3
c rm old stuff
e
s 00001/00001/00088
d D 6.1 85/05/15 18:43:47 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00003/00004/00086
d D 5.1 85/05/15 18:43:23 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00090/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 18:42:55 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH VFONT 5 2/26/79
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH VFONT 5 "26 February 1979"
E 3
I 3
.TH VFONT 5 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
vfont \- font formats for the Benson-Varian or Versatec
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/vfont/\(**
.SH DESCRIPTION
The fonts for the printer/plotters have the following format.
Each file contains a header, an array of 256 character description
structures, and then the bit maps for the characters themselves.
The header has the following format:
.in +5
.nf
.sp
.ta 8n +\w'unsigned short  'u
struct header {
	short	magic;
	unsigned short	size;
	short	maxx;
	short	maxy;
	short	xtnd;
} header;
.fi
.in -5
.PP
The
.I magic
number is 0436 (octal).
The
.I maxx,
.I maxy,
and
.I xtnd
fields are not used at the current time.
.I Maxx
and
.I maxy
are intended to be the maximum horizontal and vertical size of
any glyph in the font, in raster lines.
The
.I size
is the size of the
bit maps for the characters in bytes.
Before the maps for the characters is an array of 256 structures for
each of the possible characters in the font.
Each element of the array has the form:
.in +5
.nf
.sp
.ta 8n +\w'unsigned short  'u
struct dispatch {
	unsigned short	addr;
	short	nbytes;
	char	up;
	char	down;
	char	left;
	char	right;
	short	width;
};
.fi
.in -5
.PP
The
.I nbytes
field is nonzero for characters which actually exist.
For such characters, the
.I addr
field is an offset into the rest of the file where the data for
that character begins.
There are
.I up+down
rows of data for each character,
each of which has
.I left+right
bits, rounded up to a number of bytes.
The
.I width
field is not used by vcat,
D 2
although it is used by
.IR vwidth (1)
E 2
I 2
although it is
E 2
to make width tables for
.IR troff .
It represents the logical width of the glyph, in raster lines,
and shows where the base point of the next glyph would be.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/vfont/\(**
.SH SEE ALSO
D 2
troff(1), pti(1), vpr(1), vtroff(1), vwidth(1), vfontinfo(1), fed(1)
E 2
I 2
D 4
troff(1), pti(1), vpr(1), vtroff(1), vfontinfo(1)
E 4
I 4
troff(1), pti(1), vfontinfo(1)
E 4
E 2
E 1
