h26088
s 00005/00008/00095
d D 6.4 87/10/14 16:58:18 bostic 5 4
c don't underline "etc."
e
s 00053/00036/00050
d D 6.3 87/10/14 16:15:12 jak 4 3
c added TERMPATH, reordered, rephrased awkward parts (still needs work)
e
s 00002/00008/00084
d D 6.2 87/04/13 16:58:30 bostic 3 2
c add execle(3) to SEE ALSO
e
s 00001/00001/00091
d D 6.1 85/05/20 20:44:00 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00092/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/20 20:43:46 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH ENVIRON 7 "5 February 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH ENVIRON 7 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
environ \- user environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extern char **environ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 4
An array of strings called the `environment' is made available by
E 4
I 4
An array of strings called the
.I environment
is made available by
E 4
.IR execve (2)
when a process begins.  By convention these strings have the form
D 4
.RI ` name = value '.
E 4
I 4
D 5
.IR name = value .
E 4
The following names are used by various commands:
E 5
I 5
``\fIname=value\fP''.  The following names are used by various commands:
E 5
D 4
.TP "\w'TERMCAP 'u"
PATH
The sequence of directory prefixes that
.I sh, time,
.IR nice (1),
etc., apply in searching for a file known by an incomplete path name.
The prefixes are separated by `:'.
.IR Login (1)
sets PATH=:/usr/ucb:/bin:/usr/bin.
E 4
I 4
.TP "\w'TERMPATH 'u"
EXINIT
A startup list of commands read by
.IR ex (1),
.IR edit (1),
and
.IR vi (1).
E 4
.TP
HOME
A user's login directory, set by
.IR login (1)
from the password file
.IR passwd (5).
.TP
I 4
PATH
The sequence of directories, separated by colons, searched by
.IR csh (1),
.IR sh (1),
.IR system (3),
.IR execvp (3),
D 5
.IR etc ,
when looking for an executable file.
PATH is set to :/usr/ucb:/bin:/usr/bin initially by
E 5
I 5
etc, when looking for an executable file.
PATH is set to ``:/usr/ucb:/bin:/usr/bin'' initially by
E 5
.IR login (1).
.TP
PRINTER
The name of the default printer to be used by
.IR lpr (1),
.IR lpq (1),
and
.IR lprm (1).
.TP
SHELL
The full pathname of the user's login shell.
.TP
E 4
TERM
The kind of terminal for which output is to be prepared.
This information is used by commands, such as
D 4
.I nroff
E 4
I 4
.IR nroff (1)
E 4
or
.IR plot (1G),
which may exploit special terminal capabilities.  See
.I /etc/termcap
.RI ( termcap (5))
for a list of terminal types.
.TP
D 4
SHELL
The file name of the users login shell.
.TP
E 4
TERMCAP
D 4
The string describing the terminal in TERM, or the name of the termcap file, see
.IR termcap (5), termcap (3X).
.TP
EXINIT
A startup list of commands read by
.IR ex (1),
.IR edit (1),
E 4
I 4
The string describing the terminal in TERM, or, if
it begins with a '/', the name of the termcap file.
See TERMPATH below, 
.IR termcap (5),
E 4
and
D 4
.IR vi (1).
E 4
I 4
.IR termcap (3X).
E 4
.TP
I 4
TERMPATH
A sequence of pathnames of termcap files, separated by colons or spaces,
D 5
which are searched for terminal descriptions in the order listed.
Having no TERMPATH is equivalent to a TERMPATH of
$HOME/.termcap:/etc/termcap.
E 5
I 5
which are searched for terminal descriptions in the order listed.  Having
no TERMPATH is equivalent to a TERMPATH of ``$HOME/.termcap:/etc/termcap''.
E 5
TERMPATH is ignored if TERMCAP contains a full pathname.
.TP
E 4
USER
The login name of the user.
D 4
.TP
PRINTER
The name of the default printer to be used by
.IR lpr (1),
.IR lpq (1),
and
.IR lprm (1).
E 4
.PP
Further names may be placed in the environment by the
.I export
D 4
command and `name=value' arguments in
E 4
I 4
command and
.IR name = value
arguments in
E 4
.IR sh (1),
or by the
.I setenv
command if you use
.IR csh (1).
D 4
Arguments may also be placed in the environment at the point of an
.IR execve (2).
It is unwise to conflict with certain 
E 4
I 4
It is unwise to change certain 
E 4
.IR sh (1)
D 4
variables that are frequently exported by `.profile' files:
MAIL, PS1, PS2, IFS.
E 4
I 4
variables that are frequently exported by
.I .profile
files, such as MAIL, PS1, PS2, and IFS,
unless you know what you are doing.
E 4
.SH SEE ALSO
D 3
csh(1),
ex(1),
login(1),
sh(1),
execve(2),
system(3),
termcap(3X),
termcap(5)
E 3
I 3
csh(1), ex(1), login(1), sh(1), execve(2), execle(3),
system(3), termcap(3), termcap(5)
E 3
E 1
