h34771
s 00004/00005/00162
d D 6.4 87/08/10 15:31:38 bostic 6 5
c rename /usr/man/man0/xx to /usr/man/man.template
e
s 00021/00040/00146
d D 6.3 86/05/15 19:48:42 mckusick 5 4
c the .li macro no longer exists
e
s 00002/00001/00184
d D 6.2 86/05/06 15:07:53 anne 4 3
c spelling, grammar, diction
e
s 00001/00001/00184
d D 6.1 85/05/20 20:22:14 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00008/00004/00177
d D 5.1 85/05/20 20:22:04 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00181/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 20:21:58 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH MAN 7 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH MAN 7 "7 March 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH MAN 7 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
man \- macros to typeset manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
nroff  \-man\ 
file ...
.PP
.B
troff  \-man\ 
file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 6
These macros are used to lay out pages of this manual.
A skeleton page may be found in the file 
/usr/man/man0/xx.
E 6
I 6
These macros are used to lay out pages of this manual.  A skeleton page may
be found in the file /usr/man/man.template.
E 6
.PP
Any text argument
.I t
may be zero to six words.
Quotes may be used to include blanks in a `word'.
If 
.I text
is empty,
D 4
the special treatment is applied to
E 4
I 4
special treatment is applied to
E 4
the next input line with text to be printed.
In this way
.BR . I
may be used to italicize a whole line, or
.BR . SM
I 4
may be
E 4
followed by
.BR . B
to make small bold letters.
.PP
A prevailing indent distance is remembered between
successive indented paragraphs,
and is reset to default value upon reaching a non-indented paragraph.
Default units for indents
.I i
are ens.
.PP
Type font and size are reset to default values
before each paragraph, and after processing
font and size setting macros.
.PP
These strings are predefined by
.BR \-man :
.IP \e*R
.if t `\*R', `(Reg)' in
.if t .I nroff.
.if n `(Reg)', trademark symbol in
.if n .I troff.
.IP \e*S
Change to default type size.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.an
.br
D 6
/usr/man/man0/xx
E 6
I 6
/usr/man/man.template
E 6
.SH SEE ALSO
D 6
troff(1), man(1)
E 6
I 6
man(1), troff(1)
E 6
.SH BUGS
Relative indents don't nest.
.SH REQUESTS
D 2
.ta \w'.TH n c x 'u +\w'Cause 'u +\w'Argument\ 'u
E 2
I 2
.ta \w'.TH n c x v m'u +\w'Cause 'u +\w'Argument\ 'u
E 2
.di xx
			\ka
.br
.di
.in \nau
.ti0
Request	Cause	If no	Explanation
.ti0
	Break	Argument
.ti0
D 5
.li
.B \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.*	Text
E 5
I 5
.tr ~.
~B \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.*	Text
E 5
.I t
is bold.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.BI \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
E 5
I 5
~BI \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
E 5
words of
.I t
alternating bold and italic.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.BR \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
E 5
I 5
~BR \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
E 5
words of
.I t
alternating bold and Roman.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.DT	no	.5i 1i...	Restore default tabs.
E 5
I 5
~DT	no	.5i 1i...	Restore default tabs.
E 5
.ti0
D 5
.li
.HP \fIi\fR	yes	\fIi\fR=p.i.*	Set prevailing indent to
E 5
I 5
~HP \fIi\fR	yes	\fIi\fR=p.i.*	Set prevailing indent to
E 5
.I i.
Begin paragraph with hanging indent.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.I \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Text
E 5
I 5
~I \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Text
E 5
.I t
is italic.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.IB \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
E 5
I 5
~IB \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
E 5
words of
.I t
alternating italic and bold.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.IP \fIx i\fR	yes	\fIx\fR=""	Same as .TP with tag
E 5
I 5
~IP \fIx i\fR	yes	\fIx\fR=""	Same as .TP with tag
E 5
.I x.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.IR \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
E 5
I 5
~IR \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
E 5
words of
.I t
alternating italic and Roman.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.LP	yes	-	Same as .PP.
E 5
I 5
~LP	yes	-	Same as .PP.
E 5
.ti0
D 5
.li
.PD \fId\fR	no	\fId\fR=.4v	Interparagraph distance is 
E 5
I 5
~PD \fId\fR	no	\fId\fR=.4v	Interparagraph distance is 
E 5
.I d.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.PP	yes	-	Begin paragraph.
E 5
I 5
~PP	yes	-	Begin paragraph.
E 5
Set prevailing indent to .5i.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.RE	yes	-	End of relative indent.
E 5
I 5
~RE	yes	-	End of relative indent.
E 5
Set prevailing indent to amount of starting .RS.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.RB \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
E 5
I 5
~RB \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
E 5
words of
.I t
alternating Roman and bold.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.RI \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
E 5
I 5
~RI \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
E 5
words of
.I t
alternating Roman and italic.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.RS \fIi\fR	yes	\fIi\fR=p.i.	Start relative indent,
E 5
I 5
~RS \fIi\fR	yes	\fIi\fR=p.i.	Start relative indent,
E 5
move left margin in distance
.I i.
Set prevailing indent to .5i for nested indents.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.SH \fIt\fR	yes	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Subhead.
E 5
I 5
~SH \fIt\fR	yes	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Subhead.
E 5
.ti0
D 5
.li
.SM \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Text
E 5
I 5
~SM \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Text
E 5
.I t
is small.
.ti0
D 5
.li
D 2
.TH \fIn c x\fR	yes	-	Begin page named
E 2
I 2
.TH \fIn c x v m\fR	yes	-	Begin page named
E 5
I 5
~TH \fIn c x v m\fR	yes	-	Begin page named
E 5
E 2
.I n
of chapter
.IR c;
.I x
D 2
is extra commentary, e.g. `local', for page foot.
E 2
I 2
is extra commentary, e.g. `local', for page foot center;
.I v
alters page foot left, e.g. `4th Berkeley Distribution';
.I m
alters page head center, e.g. `Brand X Programmer's Manual'.
E 2
Set prevailing indent and tabs to .5i.
.ti0
D 5
.li
.TP \fIi\fR	yes	\fIi\fR=p.i.	Set prevailing indent to
E 5
I 5
~TP \fIi\fR	yes	\fIi\fR=p.i.	Set prevailing indent to
E 5
.I i.
Begin indented paragraph
with hanging tag given by next text line.
If tag doesn't fit, place it on separate line.
.PP
.ti0
* n.t.l. = next text line; p.i. = prevailing indent
E 1
