h56685
s 00061/00190/00063
d D 6.4 87/07/27 15:58:00 bostic 5 4
c update address styles
e
s 00003/00003/00250
d D 6.3 86/05/06 15:07:57 anne 4 3
c spelling, grammar, diction
e
s 00051/00063/00202
d D 6.2 85/06/16 17:49:04 eric 3 2
c update for new domains & to purge obsolete junk
e
s 00007/00002/00258
d D 6.1 85/05/20 20:45:25 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00260/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/20 20:44:49 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
E 5
I 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1987 Regents of the University of California.
E 5
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.\"	@(#)mailaddr.7	4.1		7/28/83
.TH MAILADDR 7
E 2
I 2
.TH MAILADDR 7 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
mailaddr \- mail addressing description
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 5
Mail addresses are based on the ARPANET protocol
listed at the end of this manual page.
These addresses are in the general format
E 5
I 5
Mail addresses are based on the ARPANET protocol listed at the end of this
manual page.  These addresses are in the general format
E 5
.PP
		user@domain
.PP
D 5
where a domain is a hierarchical dot separated list of subdomains.
For example,
the address
E 5
I 5
where a domain is a hierarchical dot separated list of subdomains.  For
example, the address
E 5
.PP
D 5
		eric@monet.Berkeley.ARPA
E 5
I 5
		eric@monet.berkeley.edu
E 5
.PP
D 5
is normally interpreted from right to left:
the message should go to the ARPA name tables
(which do not correspond exactly to the physical ARPANET),
then to the Berkeley gateway,
after which it should go to the local host monet.
When the message reaches monet it is delivered to the user ``eric''.
E 5
I 5
is normally interpreted from right to left: the message should go to the
ARPA name tables (which do not correspond exactly to the physical ARPANET),
then to the Berkeley gateway, after which it should go to the local host
monet.  When the message reaches monet it is delivered to the user ``eric''.
E 5
.PP
D 5
Unlike some other forms of addressing,
this does not imply any routing.
Thus,
although this address is specified as an ARPA address,
it might travel by an alternate route
D 4
if that was more convenient or efficient.
E 4
I 4
if that were more convenient or efficient.
E 4
For example,
at Berkeley the associated message
would probably go directly to monet over the Ethernet
rather than going via the Berkeley ARPANET gateway.
E 5
I 5
Unlike some other forms of addressing, this does not imply any routing.
Thus, although this address is specified as an ARPA address, it might
travel by an alternate route if that were more convenient or efficient.
For example, at Berkeley, the associated message would probably go directly
to monet over the Ethernet rather than going via the Berkeley ARPANET
gateway.
E 5
I 3
.SS Abbreviation.
E 3
.PP
D 3
.I Abbreviation.
E 3
D 5
Under certain circumstances
it may not be necessary to type the entire domain name.
In general anything following the first dot
may be omitted
E 5
I 5
Under certain circumstances it may not be necessary to type the entire
domain name.  In general, anything following the first dot may be omitted
E 5
if it is the same as the domain from which you are sending the message.
D 5
For example,
a user on
``calder.Berkeley.ARPA''
could send to
``eric@monet''
without adding the
``.Berkeley.ARPA''
since it is the same on both sending and receiving hosts.
E 5
I 5
For example, a user on ``calder.berkeley.edu'' could send to ``eric@monet''
without adding the ``berkeley.edu'' since it is the same on both sending
and receiving hosts.
E 5
.PP
D 5
Certain other abbreviations may be permitted
as special cases.
For example,
at Berkeley ARPANET hosts can be referenced
without adding the
``.ARPA''
as long as their names do not conflict
with a local host name.
E 5
I 5
Certain other abbreviations may be permitted as special cases.  For
example, at Berkeley, ARPANET hosts may be referenced without adding
the ``berkeley.edu'' as long as their names do not conflict with a local
host name.
E 5
I 3
.SS Compatibility.
E 3
.PP
D 3
.I Compatibility.
E 3
D 5
Certain old address formats
are converted to the new format
to provide compatibility with the previous mail system.
In particular,
E 5
I 5
Certain old address formats are converted to the new format to provide
compatibility with the previous mail system.  In particular,
E 5
.PP
I 5
		user@host.ARPA
.PP
is allowed and
.PP
E 5
		host:user
.PP
is converted to
.PP
		user@host
.PP
D 5
to be consistent with the
.IR rcp (1C)
command.
E 5
I 5
to be consistent with the \fIrcp\fP(1) command.
E 5
.PP
D 5
Also, the syntax:
E 5
I 5
Also, the syntax
E 5
.PP
		host!user
.PP
is converted to:
.PP
		user@host.UUCP
.PP
D 5
This is normally converted back to the
``host!user''
form
before being sent on for compatibility with older UUCP hosts.
E 5
I 5
This is normally converted back to the ``host!user'' form before being sent
on for compatibility with older UUCP hosts.
E 5
.PP
D 5
The current implementation is not able to route messages
automatically through the UUCP network.
Until that time you must explicitly tell the mail system
which hosts to send your message through
to get to your final destination.
E 5
I 5
The current implementation is not able to route messages automatically through
the UUCP network.  Until that time you must explicitly tell the mail system
which hosts to send your message through to get to your final destination.
E 5
I 3
.SS Case Distinctions.
E 3
.PP
D 3
.I Case Distinctions.
E 3
D 5
Domain names (i.e., anything after the ``@'' sign)
may be given in any mixture of upper and lower case
with the exception of UUCP hostnames.
D 4
Most hosts accept any mixture of case in user names,
E 4
I 4
Most hosts accept any combination of case in user names,
E 4
with the notable exception of MULTICS sites.
I 3
.SS Differences with ARPA Protocols.
E 3
.PP
D 3
.I Differences with ARPA Protocols.
E 3
Although the UNIX addressing scheme
is based on the ARPA mail addressing protocols,
there are some significant differences.
.PP
At the time of this writing
D 3
the only
``top level''
domain defined by ARPA is the
``.ARPA''
domain itself.
This is further restricted to having only one level of host specifier.
That is,
the only addresses that ARPA accepts at this time must be in the format
E 3
I 3
DARPA is converting to real domains.
The following rules may be useful:
.PP
\(bu The syntax
E 3
``user@host.ARPA''
D 3
(where ``host'' is one word).
In particular,
addresses such as:
E 3
I 3
is being split up into
``user@host.COM'',
``user@host.GOV'',
and
``user@host.EDU''
for commercial, government, and educational institutions respectively.
E 3
.PP
D 3
		eric@monet.Berkeley.ARPA
E 3
I 3
\(bu The syntax
``user@host''
(with no dots)
has traditionally referred to the ARPANET.
In the future this semantic will not be continued \(em
instead, the host will be assumed to be in your organization.
You should start using one of the syntaxes above.
E 3
.PP
D 3
are not currently legal
under the ARPA protocols.
For this reason,
these addresses are converted to a different format on output
to the ARPANET,
typically:
E 3
I 3
\(bu Host names of the form ``ORG-NAME''
(e.g., MIT-MC or CMU-CS-A)
will be changing to ``NAME.ORG.XXX''
(where `XXX' is COM, GOV, or EDU).
For example,
MIT-MC will change to MC.MIT.EDU.
In some cases names will be split apart even if they do not have dashes.
For example,
USC-ISIF will probably change to F.ISI.USC.EDU.
E 5
I 5
Domain names (i.e., anything after the ``@'' sign) may be given in any mixture
of upper and lower case with the exception of UUCP hostnames.  Most hosts
accept any combination of case in user names, with the notable exception of
MULTICS sites.
E 5
.SS Route-addrs.
E 3
.PP
D 3
		eric%monet@Berkeley.ARPA
.PP
.I Route-addrs.
E 3
D 5
Under some circumstances
it may be necessary to route a message
through several hosts
to get it to the final destination.
Normally this routing is done automatically,
but sometimes it is desirable to route the message manually.
D 4
An address that shows these relays are termed
E 4
I 4
Addresses which show these relays are termed
E 4
``route-addrs.''
E 5
I 5
Under some circumstances it may be necessary to route a message through
several hosts to get it to the final destination.  Normally this routing
is done automatically, but sometimes it is desirable to route the message
manually.  Addresses which show these relays are termed ``route-addrs.''
E 5
These use the syntax:
.PP
		<@hosta,@hostb:user@hostc>
.PP
D 5
This specifies that the message should be sent to hosta,
from there to hostb,
and finally to hostc.
This path is forced
even if there is a more efficient path
to hostc.
E 5
I 5
This specifies that the message should be sent to hosta, from there to hostb,
and finally to hostc.  This path is forced even if there is a more efficient
path to hostc.
E 5
.PP
D 5
Route-addrs
occur frequently on return addresses,
since these are generally augmented by the software
at each host.
It is generally possible to ignore all but the
``user@host''
part of the address to determine the actual sender.
E 5
I 5
Route-addrs occur frequently on return addresses, since these are generally
augmented by the software at each host.  It is generally possible to ignore
all but the ``user@domain'' part of the address to determine the actual
sender.
E 5
I 3
.SS Postmaster.
E 3
.PP
D 3
.I Postmaster.
E 3
D 5
Every site is required to have a user or user alias
designated
``postmaster''
E 5
I 5
Every site is required to have a user or user alias designated ``postmaster''
E 5
to which problems with the mail system may be addressed.
I 3
.SS Other Networks.
E 3
.PP
D 3
.I CSNET.
Messages to CSNET sites can be sent to
``user.host@UDel-Relay''.
E 3
I 3
D 5
Some other networks can be reached
by giving the name of the network as the last component
of the domain.
.I "This is not a standard feature"
and may not be supported at all sites.
For example,
messages to CSNET or BITNET sites can often be sent to
``user@host.CSNET''
or
``user@host.BITNET''
respectively.
E 3
.SH BERKELEY
The following comments apply only to the Berkeley environment.
I 3
.SS What's My Address?
E 3
.PP
D 3
.I Host Names.
Many of the old familiar host names
are being phased out.
In particular,
single character names as used in Berknet
are incompatible with the larger world
of which Berkeley is now a member.
For this reason
the following names
are being obsoleted.
You should notify any correspondents
of your new address
as soon as possible.
.PP
.ta 1i 1.2i 2.5i
	OLD	NEW
	j	ingvax	ucbingres
	p		ucbcad
	r	arpavax	ucbarpa
	v	csvax	ucbernie
	n		ucbkim
	y		ucbcory
.PP
The old addresses will be rejected as unknown hosts
sometime in the near future.
.PP
.I What's My Address?
E 3
If you are on a local machine,
say monet,
your address is
.PP
		yourname@monet.Berkeley.ARPA
.PP
However, since most of the world does not have the new software
in place yet,
you will have to give correspondents slightly different addresses.
From the ARPANET,
your address would be:
.PP
		yourname%monet@Berkeley.ARPA
.PP
From UUCP, your address would be:
.PP
		ucbvax!yourname%monet
.PP
D 3
.I Computer Center.
E 3
I 3
.SS Computer Center.
.PP
E 3
The Berkeley Computer Center
is in a subdomain of Berkeley.
Messages to the computer center
should be addressed to:
.PP
		user%host.CC@Berkeley.ARPA
.PP
The alternate syntax:
.PP
		user@host.CC
.PP
may be used if the message is sent from inside Berkeley.
.PP
For the time being
Computer Center hosts
are known within the Berkeley domain,
i.e.,
the
``.CC''
is optional.
However,
it is likely that this situation will change
with time as both the Computer Science department
and the Computer Center grow.
E 5
I 5
Some other networks can be reached by giving the name of the network as the
last component of the domain.  \fIThis is not a standard feature\fP and may
not be supported at all sites.  For example, messages to CSNET or BITNET sites
can often be sent to ``user@host.CSNET'' or ``user@host.BITNET'' respectively.
E 5
D 3
.PP
.I Bitnet.
Hosts on bitnet may be accessed using:
.PP
		user@host.BITNET
.PP
E 3
I 2
.SH BUGS
D 5
The RFC822 group syntax
(``group:user1,user2,user3;'')
is not supported except in the special case of
``group:;''
because of a conflict with old berknet-style addresses.
E 5
I 5
The RFC822 group syntax (``group:user1,user2,user3;'') is not supported
except in the special case of ``group:;'' because of a conflict with old
berknet-style addresses.
E 5
I 3
.PP
Route-Address syntax is grotty.
.PP
UUCP- and ARPANET-style addresses do not coexist politely.
E 3
E 2
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1), sendmail(8);
Crocker, D. H.,
.ul
Standard for the Format of Arpa Internet Text Messages,
RFC822.
E 1
