h10834
s 00024/00005/00017
d D 6.2 87/06/30 21:22:16 sam 2 1
c update addresses to reflect change form 24 to 32 bit addresses 
c in config file; rewrite cy.4 and vd.4 as well as vx.4
e
s 00022/00000/00000
d D 6.1 86/11/24 18:20:12 mckusick 1 0
c from CCI
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1986 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.TH CONS 4 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
D 2
cons \- TAHOE console interface
E 2
I 2
cons, CP, remote \- Tahoe console interface
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
The console is available to the processor through the console registers.
It acts like a normal terminal, except that a ``~'' is used to transfer
D 2
command to the console processor.
E 2
I 2
commands to the console processor when the front panel key switch is
in the ``foo'' or ``bar'' position.
.PP
Useful commands to the console processor include ``~h'' to halt
the machine and ``~b'' to force a reboot.  When the console processor
is in control, a ``#>'' prompt is displayed.  To continue execution
after halting the machine with ``~h'', use ``r.''.
Refer to the Tahoe
console processor handbook for the complete list of facilities available
through the console processor.
.PP
The
.I CP
device provides direct access to the console processor.  The
.I remote
device is a secondary console terminal used for remote diagnosis;
it is normally connected to a modem.
E 2
.SH FILES
D 2
/dev/console
E 2
I 2
.nf
/dev/console,
/dev/CP,
/dev/remote
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
tty(4), reboot(8)
E 2
I 2
kdb(4), tty(4), reboot(8)
E 2
.br
D 2
CP Handbook
E 2
I 2
Console processor handbook
E 2
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.
E 1
