h32371
s 00009/00012/00050
d D 6.2 86/05/16 15:58:37 karels 4 3
c new silo handling
e
s 00001/00001/00061
d D 6.1 85/05/15 17:18:43 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00008/00011/00054
d D 5.1 85/05/15 17:18:32 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00065/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 17:18:24 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH DH 4 4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH DH 4 "27 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH DH 4 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
dh, dm \- DH-11/DM-11 communications multiplexer
E 2
I 2
dh \- DH-11/DM-11 communications multiplexer
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
device dh0 at uba0 csr 0160020 vector dhrint dhxint
E 2
I 2
.B "device dh0 at uba0 csr 0160020 vector dhrint dhxint"
E 2
.br
D 2
device dm0 at uba0 csr 0170500 vector dmintr
E 2
I 2
.B "device dm0 at uba0 csr 0170500 vector dmintr"
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
A dh-11 provides 16 communication lines; dm-11's may be optionally
paired with dh-11's to provide modem control for the lines.
.PP
Each line attached to the DH-11 communications multiplexer
behaves as described in
.IR tty (4).
Input and output for each line may independently
be set to run at any of 16 speeds;
see
.IR tty (4)
for the encoding.
.PP
Bit
.I i
of flags may be specified for a dh to say that a line is not properly
connected, and that the line should be treated as hard-wired with carrier
always present.  Thus specifying ``flags 0x0004'' in the specification of dh0
would cause line ttyh2 to be treated in this way.
.PP
D 2
If the Berknet line driver
.IR bk (4)
is included in the system, then the dh driver will use its input silos
and poll for input at each clock tick (normally 1/50'th or 1/60'th of a
second) rather than taking an interrupt on each input character.
E 2
I 2
D 4
The dh driver normally uses input silos
and polls for input at each clock tick (10 milliseconds)
rather than taking an interrupt on each input character.
E 4
I 4
The
.I dh
driver monitors the rate of input on each board,
and switches between the use of character-at-a-time interrupts
and input silos.
While the silo is enabled during periods of high-speed input,
the driver polls for input 30 times per second.
E 4
E 2
.SH FILES
D 4
/dev/tty[hi][0-9a-f]
E 4
I 4
/dev/tty[h-o][0-9a-f]
E 4
.br
/dev/ttyd[0-9a-f]
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tty(4)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBdh%d: NXM\fR.  No response from UNIBUS on a dma transfer
within a timeout period.  This is often followed by a UNIBUS adapter
error.  This occurs most frequently when the UNIBUS is heavily loaded
and when devices which hog the bus (such as rk07's) are present.
It is not serious.
.PP
D 2
\fBdh%d: silo overflow\fR.  The 64 character input silo overflowed
E 2
I 2
\fBdh%d: silo overflow\fR.  The character input silo overflowed
E 2
before it could be serviced.  This can happen if a hard error occurs
when the CPU is running with elevated priority, as the system will
D 4
then print a message on the console with interrupts disabled.  If the
Berknet
D 2
.IR net (1)
E 2
is running on a
.I dh
line at high speed (e.g. 9600 baud), there is only 1/15th of a second of
buffering capacity in the silo, and overrun is possible.  This may
cause a few input characters to be lost to users and a network
packet is likely to be corrupted, but the network will recover.
E 4
I 4
then print a message on the console with interrupts disabled.
E 4
It is not serious.
E 1
