h44836
s 00001/00001/00066
d D 6.1 85/05/15 17:22:43 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00006/00009/00061
d D 5.1 85/05/15 17:22:35 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00070/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 17:22:27 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH LP 4 4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH LP 4 "27 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH LP 4 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
lp \- line printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
device lp0 at uba0 csr 0177514 vector lpintr
E 2
I 2
.B "device lp0 at uba0 csr 0177514 vector lpintr"
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lp
provides the interface to any of the standard
D 2
DEC line printers.
E 2
I 2
DEC line printers on an LP-11 parallel interface.
E 2
When it is opened or closed, a suitable number
of page ejects is generated.
Bytes written are printed.
.PP
The unit number of the printer is specified by the minor device
after removing the low 3 bits, which act as per-device parameters.
Currently only the lowest of the low three bits is interpreted:
if it is set, the device is treated as having a 64-character set,
rather than a full 96-character set.
In the resulting half-ASCII mode, lower case letters are turned
into upper case and certain characters are escaped according to
the following table:
.PP
.br
.ns
.TP 10
{
\o"-("
.br
.ns
.TP 10
}
\o"-)"
.br
.ns
.TP 10
\`
\o"-\'"
.br
.ns
.TP 10
|
\o"\-!"
.br
.ns
.TP 10
~
\o"\-^"
..
.PP
The driver correctly interprets
carriage returns, backspaces, tabs, and form feeds.
D 2
Lines longer than 132 characters are truncated
(This is a parameter in the driver).
E 2
I 2
Lines longer than the maximum page width are truncated.
The default page width is 132 columns.
This may be overridden by specifying, for example, ``flags 256'' .
E 2
.SH FILES
/dev/lp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lpr(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.
D 2
.SH BUGS
Although the driver supports multiple printers this has never
been tried.  In any case user-level software support for multiple printers
is not available.
E 2
E 1
