h03566
s 00001/00001/00067
d D 6.2 86/05/21 15:53:19 anne 3 2
c spelling
e
s 00001/00001/00067
d D 6.1 85/05/15 17:45:50 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00068/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 17:45:44 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH PCL 4 "27 July 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH PCL 4 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
pcl \- DEC CSS PCL-11 B Network Interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "device pcl0 at uba? csr 164200 vector pclxint pclrint"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I pcl
device provides an IP-only interface to the DEC CSS PCL-11
time division multiplexed network bus.
The controller itself is not accessible to users.
.PP
The hosts's address is specified with the SIOCSIFADDR ioctl.
The interface will not transmit or receive any data before
its address is defined.
.PP
As the PCL-11 hardware is only capable of having 15 interfaces per network,
a single-byte host-on-network number is used, with range [1..15] to match
the TDM bus addresses of the interfaces.
.PP
The interface currently only supports the Internet protocol family
and only provides ``natural'' (header) encapsulation.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR "pcl%d: can't init" .
Insufficient UNIBUS resources existed to initialize the device.
This is likely to occur when the device is run on a buffered
data path on an 11/750 and other network interfaces are also
configured to use buffered data paths, or when it is configured
to use buffered data paths on an 11/730 (which has none).
.PP
.BR "pcl%d: can't handle af%d" .
The interface was handed a message with addresses formatted in an
unsuitable address family;  the packet was dropped.
.PP
.BR "pcl%d: stray xmit interrupt" .
D 3
An interrupt occured when no output had previously been started.
E 3
I 3
An interrupt occurred when no output had previously been started.
E 3
.PP
.BR "pcl%d: master" .
The TDM bus had no station providing ``bus master'' timing signals,
so this interface has assumed the ``master'' role.  This message should
only appear at most once per UNIBUS INIT on a single system.
Unless there is a hardware failure, only one station may be master at at time.
.PP
.BR "pcl%d: send error, tcr=%b, tsr=%b" .
The device indicated a problem sending data on output.
If a ``receiver offline'' error is detected, it is not normally logged
unless the option PCL_TESTING has been selected, as this causes a lot
of console chatter when sending to a down machine.  However, this option
is quite useful when debugging problems with the PCL interfaces.
.PP
.BR "pcl%d: rcv error, rcr=%b rsr=%b" .
The device indicated a problem receiving data on input.
.PP
.BR "pcl%d: bad len=%d" .
An input operation resulted in a data transfer of less than
0 or more than 1008 bytes of
data into memory (according to the word count register).
This should never happen as the maximum size of a PCL message
has been agreed upon to be 1008 bytes (same as ArpaNet message).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
intro(4N), inet(4F)
E 1
