.\"	@(#)koi.7	6.1 (Berkeley) 1/2/04
.\"
.TH KOI 7 "January 2, 2004"
.UC 8
.SH NAME
koi \- support for KOI (Soviet ASCII)
.SH DESCRIPTION
KOI is the Soviet version of ASCII.
In KOI each character from 0100 through 0177 (0x40 through 0x7F) inclusive
has two different graphic renditions, Latin and Russian, and
0177 (0x7F) can be a printable character in Russian mode.
KOI thus provides 64 code points for Russian letters by overlaying them on top
of last 64 characters of the ASCII set.
These 64 code points support 32 letters of the Russian alphabet in both
lower and upper case.
The 33rd letter of the Russian alphabet, e with two dots above,
was sacrificed in the original KOI (but see below).
KOI overlays lowercase Russian letters on top of uppercase ASCII letters and
vice-versa.
This is done so that if KOI characters are rendered in the wrong mode
(see below) it is visually obvious.
.PP
How does one select between Latin and Russian graphic renditions of an
ASCII/KOI character?
There are two versions of KOI: KOI-7 for 7-bit environments and
KOI-8 for 8-bit environments.
In KOI-7 SO (016 or 0x0E) and SI (017 or 0x0F) control characters are used as
locking shifts.  SO selects the Russian graphic rendition until the next
occurrence of SI, and SI selects the Latin graphic rendition until the next
occurrence of SO.
These locking shifts only affect characters from 0100 through 0177
(0x40 through 0x7F) inclusive.
Control characters and graphic characters from 040 through 077
(0x20 through 0x3F) are not affected.
In KOI-8 the high bit is used to select between Latin and Russian graphic
renditions.  High bit clear selects the Latin graphic rendition and
high bit set selects the Russian graphic rendition.
.PP
Being an 8-bit character set KOI-8 has 256 code points.
0 through 0177 (0x7F) are identical to ASCII and
0300 through 0377 (0xC0 through 0xFF) are Russian characters as
described above.
Code points 0240 through 0277 (0xA0 through 0xBF) are available for
extra graphic characters that are not available in KOI-7.
These code points were not defined by the original KOI-8 standard, but
were later defined to a set of Eastern European characters by the
European Computer Manufacturers Association (ECMA).
This set includes e with two dots above, both lower and upper case.
KOI-8 with extra graphic characters defined by ECMA is sometimes called KOI8-E.
.PP
Code points 0200 through 0237 (0x80 through 0x9F) are control characters with
the high bit set.  They are called C1 control characters by ISO standards.
They are not available in 7-bit character sets like ASCII and KOI-7,
but by ISO standards each C1 control character has an equivalent two-character
escape sequence using only 7 bits.
.SS UNIX support
.PP
UNIX fully supports working with Russian text in both KOI-7 and KOI-8.
KOI-8 is preferred for UNIX since it is more efficient on
8-bit byte computer architectures UNIX runs on.
The
.IR tty (4)
driver supports both KOI-7 and KOI-8 terminals.
.IR Cat (1)
has options to convert between KOI-7 and KOI-8.
.IR Ex (1)
supports editing 8-bit text, and various utilities are being gradually
fixed to be 8-bit clean.
.SS KOI and mail
.PP
While UNIX runs only on computer architectures with 8-bit bytes,
making KOI-8 the natural choice for UNIX,
worldwide network mail systems have always traditionally been 7-bit.
It is entirely legitimate for a network mail message between two UNIX systems
to pass through some other systems that do not use 8-bit bytes (such as PDP-10)
and which support only 7-bit characters, i.e., ASCII or KOI-7.
Therefore, the International Free Computing Task Force (IFCTF) has adopted
KOI-7 as the standard for Russian electronic mail.
.IR Mail (1)
automatically converts outgoing messages to KOI-7 if fed KOI-8 input.
.SH FILES
.DT
/usr/pub/koi8	a map of the KOI-8 character set
.SH SEE ALSO
cat(1), tty(4), ascii(7)
.SH BUGS
In KOI-7 Russian capital hard sign falls on code point 0177 (0x7F), which
is control character delete in ASCII.
There is no universal agreement on whether it is acceptable or not
to represent capital hard sign in KOI-7 by 0177 in Russian (SO) mode.
When KOI-7 N1 (Russian mode of KOI-7) was registered with ISO
it was registered as a 94-character set (ISO 5427), meaning that if one
strictly follows ISO standards 0177 in KOI-7 Russian mode is still the delete
control character rather than capital hard sign.
This is less of a problem with KOI-8 since code point 0377 (0xFF) has no
other useful function besides the capital hard sign, and KOI8-E, the only
KOI-8 variant registered with ISO, is registered as a 96-character set.
(It is in fact ISO's very first 96-character set!  ISO 8859-1 is next.)
