h45326
s 00002/00002/00055
d D 6.3 86/06/03 15:23:58 cuccia 4 3
c Swapped BUGS: and AUTHOR: sections
e
s 00002/00001/00055
d D 6.2 85/08/28 10:18:15 bloom 3 2
c now only verfies format if isatty
e
s 00002/00002/00054
d D 6.1 85/04/27 15:59:35 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00056/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/04/27 15:59:28 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH RXFORMAT 8V "28 April 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH RXFORMAT 8V "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
rxformat \- format floppy disks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/rxformat
[
.B \-d
] special
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I rxformat
program formats a diskette in the specified drive
associated with the special device
.IR special .
(
.I Special
D 2
is normally /dev/rrx0, for drive 0, or /dev/rrx1,
E 2
I 2
is normally /dev/rx0, for drive 0, or /dev/rx1,
E 2
for drive 1.)
By default, the diskette is formatted single density;
a
.B \-d
flag may be supplied to force double density formatting.
Single density is compatible 
with the IBM 3740 standard (128 bytes/sector). 
In double density, each sector
contains 256 bytes of data.
.PP
Before formatting a diskette
.I rxformat
D 3
prompts for verification (this allows a user to cleanly
E 3
I 3
prompts for verification if standard input is a tty
(this allows a user to cleanly
E 3
abort the operation; note that
formatting a diskette will destroy any existing data).
Formatting is done by the hardware.
All sectors are zero-filled.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
`No such device' means that the drive is not ready, 
usually because no disk is in the drive or the drive door is open.
Other error messages are selfexplanatory.
.SH FILES
/dev/rx?
.SH SEE ALSO
rx(4V)
I 4
.SH AUTHOR
Helge Skrivervik
E 4
.SH BUGS
A floppy may not be formatted if the
header info on sector 1, track 0 has been damaged.  Hence, it is not
possible to format a completely degaussed disk. 
(This is actually a problem in the hardware.)
D 4
.SH AUTHOR
Helge Skrivervik
E 4
E 1
