h15963
s 00001/00001/00053
d D 6.1 85/04/29 19:25:32 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00053
d D 5.1 85/04/29 19:25:08 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00054/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 19:24:50 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH NETTROFF 1 2/6/80
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH NETTROFF 1 "6 February 1980"
E 3
I 3
.TH NETTROFF 1 "%G%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
nettroff \- troff to the phototypesetter over the network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nettroff
troff arguments
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nettroff
runs
.IR troff (1)
and sends the output over the network to the machine at the Computer Center
with the phototypesetter (currently the ``A'' machine.)
It will prompt you for an account name and password on the A machine unless
you have provided these in your
.I \&.netrc
file.
The
.I troff
.B \-s
option is unnecessary and not permitted.
.LP
.I Nettroff
jobs are limited to 15 feet of typesetter output.
It is also a good idea to limit the size of the individual files sent,
as the network uses a shortest-job-first scheduling algorithm.
Jobs of 25000 characters or less are preferable; in no case will the
network accept jobs longer than 100000 characters.
.SH SEE ALSO
vtroff(1), net(1), troff(1)
.SH BUGS
There is no way to specify special font mounts on the A machine.
.br
The 
.B \-l
and 
.B \-p
options of the 
.IR net (1)
command may not be specified.
.br
This command is not supported by the Computer Center.
.br
If on a Computer Center machine (B, C, D, or E) use the
.I troff
command (see
.IR troff (1))
for more information.
E 1
