h11497
s 00001/00001/00073
d D 6.1 85/04/29 19:21:29 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00073
d D 5.1 85/04/29 19:20:53 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00074/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 19:20:30 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH NETLPR 1 2/6/80
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH NETLPR 1 "6 February 1980"
E 3
I 3
.TH NETLPR 1 "%G%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.ds s 1
.ds o 1
.SH NAME
netlpr \- use a remote lineprinter through the net
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B netlpr
[
.B \-m
machine ] [
.B \-l
login
] [
.B \-p
password
]
[
.B \-f
] [
.B \-q
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-c
command ] [ name1 ... namen ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Netlpr
sends the named files, (or the standard input if none are named),
to a remote lineprinter; the 
.B \-m
option forces the files to be printed on the specified machine.
(If not specified, the default machine is used.)
The
.B \-l, 
.B \-p, 
.B \-f,
.B \-q,
and 
.B \-n
options behave exactly as in
.IR net (\*s).
If the
.B \-c
option is specified, the 
.I command
is used in place of `lpr'.
This allows the use of different lineprinters on the remote machine.
See the file
.I `/usr/net/network.map'
for a list of available commands.
Any other options are passed through to
.IR lpr (\*o)
on the remote machine.
Copies of the files are not made on the remote machine.
.PP
.I Netlpr
executes the
.IR net (\*s)
command.
.SH FILES
.ta 2.5i
/usr/net/network.map 	lists the allowed local printer names
.SH "SEE ALSO"
net(\*s), netrm(\*s), netq(\*s), netlog(\*s), netcp(\*s),
netmail(\*s), netlogin(\*s), mail(\*o), lpr(\*o)
.SH AUTHOR
Eric Schmidt
E 1
