h42162
s 00001/00001/00081
d D 6.1 85/04/29 19:22:38 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00081
d D 5.1 85/04/29 19:22:09 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00082/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/29 19:21:45 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH NETMAIL 1 2/6/80
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH NETMAIL 1 "6 February 1980"
E 3
I 3
.TH NETMAIL 1 "%G%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.ds s 1
.ds o 1
.SH NAME
netmail \- read mail on a remote machine over the network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B netmail
[
.B \-l
username ] [
.B \-p
password ] [
.B \-c
] [
.B \-q
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-f
] [ machine:username ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mail is checked and/or read on the specified
.I machine.
If the machine specification is omitted, the default machine is used.
The command has two distinct modes depending on whether the 
.B \-c
option is specified.
.PP
If 
.B \-c
is specified, the presence of mail is checked on the remote machine.
No password is required so it can be put in C shell `.netrc' file.
A message is written or mailed back (see 
.IR net (\*s))
if there is or is not any unread mail.
.PP
If the 
.B \-c
option is not specified, mail is read and mailed back to the user.
A password is required.
Mail is also appended to the remote file
.I `mbox'
as a precaution.
.PP
The 
.B \-q 
option suppresses the message sent back if there is no mail.
The options
.B \-l,
.B \-p,
.B \-f,
and
.B \-n
behave exactly as in
.IR net (\*s).
(The login name can be specified either with the
.B \-l
option or by `machine:username'.)
.PP
.I Netmail
executes the
.IR net (\*s)
command.
.PP
Examples:
.IP "    netmail\ \-c\ X:uname" 30
checks if there is mail for `uname' on the X machine, no password required.
.IP "    netmail\ X:uname" 30
reads mail for `uname' on the X machine, mails it back, password is required.
.SH AUTHOR
Eric Schmidt
.SH "SEE ALSO"
net(\*s), netrm(\*s), netq(\*s), netlog(\*s), netcp(\*s),
netlpr(\*s), netlogin(\*s), mail(\*o)
.SH BUGS
E 1
