h11289
s 00001/00001/00083
d D 6.4 86/05/22 11:49:59 anne 6 5
c spelling
e
s 00003/00000/00081
d D 6.3 85/08/26 23:31:31 mckusick 5 4
c update error messages (mostly from sun!guy)
e
s 00013/00011/00068
d D 6.2 85/05/22 18:30:44 mckusick 4 3
c update the error return codes to reflect those in 4.3BSD
e
s 00001/00001/00078
d D 6.1 85/05/09 16:36:31 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00045/00010/00034
d D 5.1 85/05/09 16:36:16 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00044/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 16:36:01 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH ACCT 2 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH ACCT 2 "13 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH ACCT 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
acct \- turn accounting on or off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
D 2
.B acct(file)
.B char *file;
E 2
I 2
.ft B
acct(file)
char *file;
.ft R
E 2
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The system is prepared to write a record
in an accounting
.I file
for each process as it terminates.
This
call, with a null-terminated string naming an existing file
as argument, turns on accounting;
records for each terminating process are appended to
.IR file .
An argument of 0 causes accounting to be turned off.
.PP
The accounting file format is given in
.IR acct (5).
D 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
acct(5), sa(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
E 2
I 2
.PP
This call is permitted only to the super-user.
.SH NOTES
Accounting is automatically disabled when the file system the
accounting file resides on runs out of space; it is enabled when
space once again becomes available.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
E 2
On error \-1 is returned.
The file must exist and the call may be exercised only by the super-user.
It is erroneous to try to turn on accounting when it is already on.
I 2
.SH ERRORS
.I Acct
will fail if one of the following is true:
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP 15
D 4
[EPERM]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
E 4
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
I 4
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
E 4
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
D 4
[EISDIR]
The named file is a directory.
E 4
I 4
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix,
or the path name is not a regular file.
E 4
.TP 15
I 4
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
E 4
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I File
points outside the process's allocated address space.
I 5
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
E 5
D 4
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The file is a character or block special file.
E 4
.SH "SEE ALSO"
acct(5), sa(8)
E 2
.SH BUGS
No accounting is produced for programs running
when a crash occurs.
D 6
In particular nonterminating programs are never
E 6
I 6
In particular non-terminating programs are never
E 6
accounted for.
D 2
.SH "ASSEMBLER (PDP-11)"
(acct = 51.)
.br
.B sys acct; file
E 2
E 1
