h62631
s 00010/00005/00068
d D 1.5 88/07/09 11:41:32 bostic 5 4
c install approved copyright notice
e
s 00008/00002/00065
d D 1.4 87/12/23 14:38:26 bostic 4 3
c put Berkeley header on it; NASA wants a copy
e
s 00001/00001/00066
d D 1.3 86/05/15 15:49:59 anne 3 2
c spelling
e
s 00008/00016/00059
d D 1.2 86/05/14 10:16:33 karels 2 1
c updates, rm machine-dependent comments (no longer accurate on vax)
e
s 00075/00000/00000
d D 1.1 85/06/25 10:38:29 gusella 1 0
c date and time created 85/06/25 10:38:29 by gusella
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
D 4
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 4
I 4
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
D 5
.\" provided that this notice is preserved and that due credit is given
.\" to the University of California at Berkeley. The name of the University
.\" may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" software without specific prior written permission. This software
.\" is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
E 5
I 5
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
E 5
E 4
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.TH ADJTIME 2 "%Q%"
.UC 6
.SH NAME
adjtime \- correct the time to allow synchronization of the system clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/time.h>
.PP
.ft B
adjtime(delta, olddelta)
struct timeval *delta; 
struct timeval *olddelta;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Adjtime
D 2
changes the system time, as returned by
E 2
I 2
makes small adjustments to the system time, as returned by
E 2
.IR gettimeofday (2),
D 2
moving it backward or forward 
by the number of microseconds corresponding to the timeval
E 2
I 2
advancing or retarding it
D 3
by the time speicified by the timeval
E 3
I 3
by the time specified by the timeval
E 3
E 2
\fIdelta\fP.
D 2
.PP
The time is maintained by incrementing it with a machine-dependent tick
every clock interrupt.
E 2
If \fIdelta\fP is negative, the clock is
D 2
slowed down by incrementing it in smaller ticks until
the correction is made.
If \fIdelta\fP is positive, a larger tick
E 2
I 2
slowed down by incrementing it more slowly than normal until
the correction is complete.
If \fIdelta\fP is positive, a larger increment than normal
E 2
is used.
I 2
The skew used to perform the correction is generally a fraction of one percent.
E 2
Thus, the time is always
a monotonically increasing function.
A time correction from an earlier call to \fIadjtime\fP
may not be finished when \fIadjtime\fP is called again.
If \fIolddelta\fP is non-zero,
then the structure pointed to will contain, upon return, the
number of microseconds still to be corrected
from the earlier call.
.PP
D 2
This call can be used in time servers that synchronize the clocks
E 2
I 2
This call may be used by time servers that synchronize the clocks
E 2
of computers in a local area network.
Such time servers would slow down the clocks of some machines
and speed up the clocks of others to bring them to the average network time.
.PP
The call 
.IR adjtime (2)
is restricted to the super-user.
D 2
.SH NOTES
On a VAX the time is incremented 
in 10ms ticks.
When \fIadjtime\fP is called with an argument other than zero,
ticks of 9ms or 11ms are used until the time is corrected.
A \fIdelta\fP of less than 1ms would have no effect.
E 2
.SH "RETURN VALUE
A return value of 0 indicates that the call succeeded.
A return value of \-1 indicates that an error occurred, and in this
case an error code is stored in the global variable \fIerrno\fP.
.SH "ERRORS
The following error codes may be set in \fIerrno\fP:
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
An argument points outside the process's allocated address space.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The process's effective user ID is not that of the super-user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
date(1), gettimeofday(2), timed(8), timedc(8),
.br
\fITSP: The Time Synchronization Protocol for UNIX 4.3BSD\fP, 
R. Gusella and S. Zatti
E 1
