h16600
s 00006/00000/00111
d D 6.6 86/05/22 10:18:36 mckusick 8 7
c note that symbolic links are not followed
e
s 00008/00007/00103
d D 6.5 86/05/13 11:26:23 karels 7 6
c owners can chgrp; clarifications
e
s 00010/00002/00100
d D 6.4 85/08/26 23:30:38 mckusick 6 5
c update error messages (mostly from sun!guy)
e
s 00001/00001/00101
d D 6.3 85/06/28 16:22:07 sechrest 5 4
c Improved English
e
s 00012/00011/00090
d D 6.2 85/05/22 18:30:25 mckusick 4 3
c update the error return codes to reflect those in 4.3BSD
e
s 00001/00001/00100
d D 6.1 85/05/09 16:03:00 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00073/00019/00028
d D 5.1 85/05/09 16:02:51 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00047/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 16:02:43 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH CHOWN 2 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH CHOWN 2 "27 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH CHOWN 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
chown \- change owner and group of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
D 2
.B chown(name, owner, group)
.B char *name;
E 2
I 2
.ft B
chown(path, owner, group)
char *path;
int owner, group;
.PP
.ft B
fchown(fd, owner, group)
int fd, owner, group;
E 2
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
D 2
whose name is given by the null-terminated string pointed
to by
.I name
E 2
I 2
D 5
which is named by \fIpath\fP or referenced by \fIfd\fP
E 5
I 5
that is named by \fIpath\fP or referenced by \fIfd\fP
E 5
E 2
has its
.I owner
and 
.I group
changed as specified.
D 7
Only the super-user may
execute this call,
E 7
I 7
Only the super-user
may change the owner of the file,
E 7
because if users were able to give files away,
D 2
they could defeat the (nonexistent)
file-space accounting procedures.
E 2
I 2
they could defeat the file-space accounting procedures.
I 7
The owner of the file may change the group
to a group of which he is a member.
E 7
E 2
.PP
On some systems,
.I chown
D 2
clears the set-user-id bit
E 2
I 2
clears the set-user-id and set-group-id bits
E 2
on the file
to prevent accidental creation of
D 2
set-user-id programs owned by the super-user.
E 2
I 2
D 7
set-user-id and set-group-id programs
owned by the super-user.
E 7
I 7
set-user-id and set-group-id programs.
E 7
.PP
.I Fchown
is particularly useful when used in conjunction
with the file locking primitives (see
.IR flock (2)).
.PP
D 7
Only one of the owner and group id's
may be set by specifying the other as \-1.
E 7
I 7
One of the owner or group id's
may be left unchanged by specifying it as \-1.
I 8
.PP
If the final component of
.I path
is a symbolic link,
the ownership and group of the symbolic link is changed,
not the ownership and group of the file or directory to which it points.
E 8
E 7
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Zero is returned if the operation was successful;
\-1 is returned if an error occurs, with a more specific
error code being placed in the global variable \fIerrno\fP.
.SH "ERRORS
.I Chown
will fail and the file will be unchanged if:
.TP 15
D 4
[EINVAL]
The argument path does not refer to a file.
.TP 15
E 4
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
D 4
[ENOENT]
The argument pathname is too long.
E 4
I 4
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
E 4
.TP 15
D 4
[EPERM]
The argument contains a byte with the high-order bit set.
E 4
I 4
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
E 4
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
D 4
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
E 4
I 4
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
E 4
.TP 15
I 4
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
E 4
[EPERM]
D 6
The effective user ID does not match the owner of the file and
the effective user ID is not the super-user.
E 6
I 6
The effective user ID is not the super-user.
E 6
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
I 6
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
E 6
D 4
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
E 4
.PP
.I Fchown
will fail if:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
.I Fd
does not refer to a valid descriptor.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
.I Fd
refers to a socket, not a file.
I 4
.TP 15
I 6
[EPERM]
The effective user ID is not the super-user.
.TP 15
E 6
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
I 6
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
E 6
E 4
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
chown(1), passwd(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Zero is returned if the owner is changed;
\-1 is returned
on illegal owner changes.
.SH "ASSEMBLER (PDP-11)"
(chown = 16.)
.br
.B sys chown; name; owner; group
E 2
I 2
D 7
chmod(2), flock(2)
E 7
I 7
chown(8), chgrp(1), chmod(2), flock(2)
E 7
E 2
E 1
