h05427
s 00003/00000/00061
d D 6.3 85/08/26 23:32:31 mckusick 4 3
c update error messages (mostly from sun!guy)
e
s 00009/00010/00052
d D 6.2 85/05/22 18:31:44 mckusick 3 2
c update the error return codes to reflect those in 4.3BSD
e
s 00001/00001/00061
d D 6.1 85/05/15 11:53:05 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00062/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 11:52:59 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH CHROOT 2 "2 July 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH CHROOT 2 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
chroot \- change root directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
chroot(dirname)
char *dirname;
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dirname
is the address of the pathname of a directory, terminated by a null byte.
.I Chroot
causes this directory
to become the root directory,
the starting point for path names beginning with ``/''.
.PP
In order for a directory to become the root directory
a process must have execute (search) access to the directory.
.PP
This call is restricted to the super-user.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  Otherwise,
a value of \-1 is returned and \fIerrno\fP is set to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
.I Chroot
will fail and the root directory will be unchanged if
one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path name is not a directory.
.TP 15
D 3
[ENOENT]
The pathname was too long.
E 3
I 3
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
E 3
.TP 15
D 3
[EPERM]
The argument contains a byte with the high-order bit set.
E 3
I 3
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
E 3
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named directory does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
D 3
Search permission is denied for any component of
the path name.
E 3
I 3
Search permission is denied for any component of the path name.
E 3
.TP 15
I 3
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
E 3
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
I 4
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
E 4
D 3
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
the pathname.
E 3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chdir(2)
E 1
