h40168
s 00017/00012/00111
d D 6.5 86/05/13 10:48:50 karels 8 7
c add names for the bits, correct old !INSECURE stuff
e
s 00011/00006/00112
d D 6.4 86/02/02 03:08:28 donn 7 6
c Added description of sticky directories.
e
s 00006/00000/00112
d D 6.3 85/08/26 23:30:32 mckusick 6 4
c update error messages (mostly from sun!guy)
e
s 00000/00007/00105
d R 6.3 85/06/07 11:51:33 lepreau 5 4
c writing and chown no longer remove suid bits
e
s 00010/00009/00102
d D 6.2 85/05/22 18:30:21 mckusick 4 3
c update the error return codes to reflect those in 4.3BSD
e
s 00001/00001/00110
d D 6.1 85/05/09 16:02:35 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00069/00028/00042
d D 5.1 85/05/09 16:02:23 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00070/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 16:02:14 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH CHMOD 2 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH CHMOD 2 "2 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH CHMOD 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
chmod \- change mode of file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
D 2
.B chmod(name, mode)
.B char *name;
E 2
I 2
.ft B
chmod(path, mode)
char *path;
int mode;
.PP
.ft B
fchmod(fd, mode)
int fd, mode;
E 2
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file whose name
D 2
is given as the null-terminated string pointed to by
.I name
E 2
I 2
is given by \fIpath\fP
or referenced by the descriptor
.I fd
E 2
has its mode changed to
.IR mode .
Modes are constructed by
D 2
.IR or ing
E 2
I 2
.IR or 'ing
E 2
together some
D 8
combination of the following:
E 8
I 8
combination of the following, defined in
.IR <sys/inode.h> :
E 8
.PP
.RS
D 8
 04000 set user ID on execution
 02000 set group ID on execution
D 7
 01000 save text image after execution
E 7
I 7
 01000 `sticky bit' (see below)
E 7
 00400 read by owner
 00200 write by owner
 00100 execute (search on directory) by owner
 00070 read, write, execute (search) by group
 00007 read, write, execute (search) by others
E 8
I 8
.nf
.ta \w'IWRITE\ \ 'u +\w'04000\ \ \ 'u
ISUID	04000	set user ID on execution
ISGID	02000	set group ID on execution
ISVTX	01000	`sticky bit' (see below)
IREAD	00400	read by owner
IWRITE	00200	write by owner
IEXEC	00100	execute (search on directory) by owner
	00070	read, write, execute (search) by group
	00007	read, write, execute (search) by others
.fi
E 8
.RE
.PP
If an executable file is set up for sharing (this is the default)
D 7
then mode 1000 prevents the system from
E 7
I 7
D 8
then mode 01000 (the `sticky bit') prevents the system from
E 8
I 8
then mode ISVTX (the `sticky bit') prevents the system from
E 8
E 7
abandoning the swap-space image of the program-text portion
D 7
of the file when its last user
terminates.
D 2
Ability to set this bit is restricted to the super-user
since swap space is consumed
by the images.
See
.IR sticky (8).
E 2
I 2
Ability to set this bit is restricted to the super-user.
E 7
I 7
of the file when its last user terminates.
Ability to set this bit on executable files is restricted to the super-user.
E 7
E 2
.PP
I 7
D 8
If mode 01000 (the `sticky bit') is set on a directory,
E 8
I 8
If mode ISVTX (the `sticky bit') is set on a directory,
E 8
an unprivileged user may not delete or rename
files of other users in that directory.
For more details of the properties of the sticky bit, see
.IR sticky (8).
.PP
E 7
Only the owner of a file (or the super-user) may change the mode.
D 2
Only the super-user can set the 1000 mode.
E 2
.PP
D 2
On some systems,
writing or changing the owner of a file
turns off the set-user-id bit.
E 2
I 2
Writing or changing the owner of a file
D 8
turns off the set-user-id and set-group-id bits.
E 8
I 8
turns off the set-user-id and set-group-id bits
unless the user is the super-user.
E 8
E 2
This makes the system somewhat more secure
D 2
by protecting set-user-id files
from remaining set-user-id if they are modified,
E 2
I 2
by protecting set-user-id (set-group-id) files
from remaining set-user-id (set-group-id) if they are modified,
E 2
at the expense of a degree of compatibility.
I 2
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS
.I Chmod
will fail and the file mode will be unchanged if:
.TP 15
D 4
[EPERM]
The argument contains a byte with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
E 4
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
D 4
[ENOENT]
The pathname was too long.
E 4
I 4
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
E 4
.TP 15
I 4
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
E 4
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
D 4
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
E 4
I 4
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
E 4
.TP 15
I 4
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
E 4
[EPERM]
The effective user ID does not match the owner of the file and
the effective user ID is not the super-user.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
I 6
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
E 6
D 4
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
E 4
.PP
.I Fchmod
will fail if:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
The descriptor is not valid.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
.I Fd
refers to a socket, not to a file.
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The file resides on a read-only file system.
I 6
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
E 6
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
chmod(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTIC
Zero is returned if the mode is changed;
\-1 is returned if
.I name
cannot be found or if the current user
is neither the owner of the file nor the super-user.
.SH "ASSEMBLER (PDP-11)"
(chmod = 15.)
.br
.B sys chmod; name; mode
E 2
I 2
D 7
open(2), chown(2)
E 7
I 7
chmod(1), open(2), chown(2), stat(2), sticky(8)
E 7
E 2
E 1
