h42657
s 00003/00000/00061
d D 6.3 85/08/26 23:31:34 mckusick 5 4
c update error messages (mostly from sun!guy)
e
s 00010/00010/00051
d D 6.2 85/05/22 18:30:47 mckusick 4 3
c update the error return codes to reflect those in 4.3BSD
e
s 00001/00001/00060
d D 6.1 85/05/09 16:37:42 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00044/00016/00017
d D 5.1 85/05/09 16:37:31 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00033/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 16:37:21 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH CHDIR 2 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH CHDIR 2 "2 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH CHDIR 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
chdir \- change current working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
D 2
.B chdir(dirname)
.B char *dirname;
E 2
I 2
.ft B
chdir(path)
char *path;
.ft R
E 2
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
.I Dirname
is the address of the pathname of a directory, terminated by a null byte.
E 2
I 2
.I Path
is the pathname of a directory.
E 2
.I Chdir
causes this directory
to become the current working directory,
D 2
the starting point for path names not beginning with `/'.
E 2
I 2
the starting point for path names not beginning with ``/''.
.PP
In order for a directory to become the current directory,
a process must have execute (search) access to the directory.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and \fIerrno\fP is set to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.I Chdir
will fail and the current working directory will be unchanged if
one or more of the following are true:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
D 4
A component of the pathname is not a directory.
E 4
I 4
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
E 4
.TP 15
I 4
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
E 4
[ENOENT]
The named directory does not exist.
.TP 15
D 4
[ENOENT]
The argument path name was too long.
E 4
I 4
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
E 4
.TP 15
D 4
[EPERM]
The argument contains a byte with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
E 4
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for any component of
the path name.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
I 5
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
E 5
D 4
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
the pathname.
E 4
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
cd(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Zero is returned if the directory is changed; \-1
is returned
if the given name is not that of a directory
or is not searchable.
.SH ASSEMBLER
(chdir = 12.)
.br
.B sys chdir; dirname
E 2
I 2
chroot(2)
E 2
E 1
