h60861
s 00002/00002/00134
d D 6.6 86/05/22 11:59:37 anne 8 7
c grammar
e
s 00001/00001/00135
d D 6.5 86/05/15 13:10:13 anne 7 6
c spelling
e
s 00022/00000/00114
d D 6.4 85/08/26 23:31:37 mckusick 6 5
c update error messages (mostly from sun!guy)
e
s 00001/00001/00113
d D 6.3 85/06/28 16:29:38 sechrest 5 4
c Improved english
e
s 00017/00008/00097
d D 6.2 85/05/22 18:30:51 mckusick 4 3
c update the error return codes to reflect those in 4.3BSD
e
s 00001/00001/00104
d D 6.1 85/05/09 16:38:07 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00064/00033/00041
d D 5.1 85/05/09 16:37:58 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00074/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 16:37:51 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH CREAT 2 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH CREAT 2 "2 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH CREAT 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
creat \- create a new file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B creat(name, mode)
.B char *name;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
I 2
D 8
.B "This interface is obsoleted by open(2).
E 8
I 8
.B "This interface is made obsolete by open(2).
E 8
.PP
E 2
.I Creat
creates a new file or prepares to rewrite an existing
file called 
D 2
.I name,
E 2
I 2
.IR name ,
E 2
given as the address of a null-terminated string.
If the file did not exist, it is given
mode
.IR mode ,
as modified by the process's mode mask (see
.IR umask (2)).
Also see
.IR  chmod (2)
for the
construction of the
.I mode
argument.
.PP
If the file did exist, its mode and owner remain unchanged
but it is truncated to 0 length.
.PP
The file is also opened for writing, and its file descriptor
is returned.
D 2
.PP
E 2
I 2
.SH NOTES
E 2
The
.I mode
given is arbitrary; it need not allow
writing.
D 2
This feature is used by programs which deal with temporary
files of fixed names.
The creation is done with
a mode that forbids writing.
Then if a second
instance of the program attempts a
.I creat,
an error is
returned and the program knows that the name is unusable
for the moment.
E 2
I 2
This feature has been used in the past by
D 8
programs to construct a simple exclusive locking
E 8
I 8
programs to construct a simple, exclusive locking
E 8
mechanism.  It is replaced by the O_EXCL open
mode, or 
.IR flock (2)
D 7
facilitity.
E 7
I 7
facility.  
E 7
.SH "RETURN VALUE
The value \-1 is returned if an error occurs.  Otherwise,
D 5
the call returns a non-negative descriptor which only permits
E 5
I 5
the call returns a non-negative descriptor that only permits
E 5
writing.
.SH ERRORS
.I Creat
will fail and the file will not be created or truncated
if one of the following occur:
.TP 15
D 4
[EPERM]
The argument contains a byte with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
E 4
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
I 4
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
E 4
[EACCES]
D 4
A needed directory does not have search permission.
E 4
I 4
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
E 4
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The file does not exist and the directory
in which it is to be created is not writable.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
The file exists, but it is unwritable.
.TP 15
[EISDIR]
The file is a directory.
.TP 15
[EMFILE]
There are already too many files open.
.TP 15
I 6
[ENFILE]
The system file table is full.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The directory in which the entry for the new file is being placed
cannot be extended because there is no space left on the file
system containing the directory.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
There are no free inodes on the file system on which the
file is being created.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The directory in which the entry for the new file
is being placed cannot be extended because the
user's quota of disk blocks on the file system
containing the directory has been exhausted.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The user's quota of inodes on the file system on
which the file is being created has been exhausted.
.TP 15
E 6
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
The file is a character special or block special file, and
the associated device does not exist.
.TP 15
[ETXTBSY]
The file is a pure procedure (shared text) file that is being
executed.
.TP 15
I 4
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while making the directory entry or allocating the inode.
.TP 15
E 4
[EFAULT]
.I Name
points outside the process's allocated address space.
D 4
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the
pathname.
E 4
.TP 15
[EOPNOTSUPP]
The file was a socket (not currently implemented).
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
write(2), close(2), chmod(2), umask (2)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The value \-1 is returned if:
a needed directory is not searchable;
the file does not exist and the directory
in which it is to be created is not writable; the file
does exist and is unwritable;
the file is a directory;
there are already too many files open.
.SH "ASSEMBLER (PDP-11)"
(creat = 8.)
.br
.B sys creat; name; mode
.br
(file descriptor in r0)
.SH BUGS
A file cannot be truncated while any process
has pages set up by a
.I vread
on that file which have not been referenced.
E 2
I 2
open(2), write(2), close(2), chmod(2), umask(2)
E 2
E 1
