h57689
s 00005/00001/00077
d D 6.3 86/05/13 14:03:38 karels 5 4
c close-on-exec
e
s 00003/00003/00075
d D 6.2 85/06/28 16:31:57 sechrest 4 3
c Improved english
e
s 00001/00001/00077
d D 6.1 85/05/09 16:38:33 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00062/00059/00016
d D 5.1 85/05/09 16:38:22 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00075/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 16:38:16 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH DUP 2 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH DUP 2 "12 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH DUP 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
dup, dup2 \- duplicate an open file descriptor
E 2
I 2
dup, dup2 \- duplicate a descriptor
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
D 2
.B dup(fildes)
.B int fildes;
E 2
I 2
.ft B
newd = dup(oldd)
int newd, oldd;
E 2
.PP
D 2
.B dup2(fildes, fildes2)
.B int fildes, fildes2;
E 2
I 2
.ft B
dup2(oldd, newd)
int oldd, newd;
E 2
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
Given
a file descriptor returned from
an
.I open,
.I pipe,
or
.I creat
call,
.I dup
allocates another file descriptor
synonymous
with
the original.
The new file descriptor is returned.
E 2
I 2
.I Dup
duplicates an existing object descriptor.
The argument \fIoldd\fP is a small non-negative integer index in
the per-process descriptor table.  The value must be less
than the size of the table, which is returned by
.IR getdtablesize (2).
D 4
The new descriptor
.I newd
returned by the call is the lowest numbered descriptor which is
E 4
I 4
The new descriptor returned by the call,
.I newd,
is the lowest numbered descriptor that is
E 4
not currently in use by the process.
E 2
.PP
D 2
In the second form of the call,
.I fildes
is a file descriptor referring to an open file, and
.I fildes2
is a non-negative integer less than the maximum value
allowed for file descriptors (approximately 19).
.I Dup2
causes
.I fildes2
to refer to the same file as
.I fildes.
If
.I fildes2
already referred to an open file, it is closed first.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
creat(2), open(2), close(2), pipe(2)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The value \-1 is returned if:
the given file descriptor is invalid;
there are already too many open files.
.SH "ASSEMBLER (PDP-11)"
(dup = 41.)
.br
(file descriptor in r0)
.br
(new file descriptor in r1)
.br
.B sys dup
.br
(file descriptor in r0)
E 2
I 2
The object referenced by the descriptor does not distinguish
between references using \fIoldd\fP and \fInewd\fP in any way.
Thus if \fInewd\fP and \fIoldd\fP are duplicate references to an open
file,
.IR read (2),
.IR write (2)
and
.IR lseek (2)
D 5
calls all move a single pointer into the file.
E 5
I 5
calls all move a single pointer into the file,
and append mode, non-blocking I/O and asynchronous I/O options
are shared between the references.
E 5
If a separate pointer into the file is desired, a different
object reference to the file must be obtained by issuing an
additional
.IR open (2)
call.
I 5
The close-on-exec flag on the new file descriptor is unset.
E 5
E 2
.PP
D 2
The
E 2
I 2
In the second form of the call, the value of
.IR newd
desired is specified.  If this descriptor is already
in use, the descriptor is first deallocated as if a
.IR close (2)
call had been done first.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
The value \-1 is returned if an error occurs in either call.
The external variable
.I errno
indicates the cause of the error.
.SH "ERRORS
.I Dup
and
E 2
.I dup2
D 2
entry is implemented by adding 0100 to
.I fildes.
.SH BUGS
Dup2 fails if
.I fildes2
was
.I vread
from and some of the pages have not been referenced.
E 2
I 2
fail if:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
\fIOldd\fP or
\fInewd\fP is not a valid active descriptor
.TP 15
[EMFILE]
Too many descriptors are active.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
accept(2),
open(2),
close(2),
I 5
fcntl(2),
E 5
pipe(2),
socket(2),
socketpair(2),
getdtablesize(2)
E 2
E 1
