h05155
s 00001/00001/00057
d D 6.4 87/04/10 10:06:35 bostic 5 4
c initgroups is 3 now, not 3X
e
s 00006/00000/00052
d D 6.3 86/05/13 15:01:46 karels 4 3
c mention gid_t
e
s 00001/00001/00051
d D 6.2 85/06/28 16:55:47 sechrest 3 2
c Improved english
e
s 00018/00013/00034
d D 6.1 85/05/15 11:55:04 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00047/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 11:54:57 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH GETGROUPS 2 "7 July 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH GETGROUPS 2 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
getgroups \- get group access list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <sys/param.h>
.PP
.ft B
D 2
getgroups(ngroups, gidset)
int *ngroups, *gidset;
E 2
I 2
ngroups = getgroups(gidsetlen, gidset)
int ngroups, gidsetlen, *gidset;
E 2
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getgroups
gets the current group access list of the user process
and stores it in the array 
.IR gidset .
The parameter
D 2
.I ngroups
E 2
I 2
.I gidsetlen
E 2
D 3
indicates the number of entries which may be placed in 
E 3
I 3
indicates the number of entries that may be placed in 
E 3
D 2
.I gidset
and is modified on return to indicate the actual number of
groups returned.
No more than NGRPS, as defined in
E 2
I 2
.IR gidset.
.I Getgroups
returns the actual number of groups returned in
.IR gidset .
No more than NGROUPS, as defined in
E 2
.RI < sys/param.h >,
will ever
be returned.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
D 2
A value of 0 indicates that the call succeeded, and that the
number of elements of \fIgidset\fP and the set itself were returned.
E 2
I 2
A successful call returns the number of groups in the group set.
E 2
A value of \-1 indicates that an error occurred, and the error
code is stored in the global variable \fIerrno\fP\|.
.SH "ERRORS
The possible errors for \fIgetgroup\fP are:
.TP 15
I 2
[EINVAL]
The argument
.I gidsetlen
is smaller than the number of groups in the group set.
.TP
E 2
[EFAULT]
D 2
The arguments \fIngroups\fP or \fIgidset\fP specify
invalid addresses.
E 2
I 2
The argument \fIgidset\fP specifies
an invalid address.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO
D 2
setgroups(2), initgroups(3)
E 2
I 2
D 5
setgroups(2), initgroups(3X)
E 5
I 5
setgroups(2), initgroups(3)
E 5
I 4
.SH BUGS
The
.I gidset
array should be of type
.BR gid_t ,
but remains integer for compatibility with earlier systems.
E 4
E 2
E 1
