h43172
s 00007/00003/00048
d D 6.3 86/05/14 10:03:20 karels 5 4
c fixes and updates
e
s 00001/00001/00050
d D 6.2 85/06/28 17:17:46 sechrest 4 3
c Improved english
e
s 00001/00001/00050
d D 6.1 85/05/09 17:34:37 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00031/00041/00020
d D 5.1 85/05/09 17:34:10 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00061/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 17:33:42 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH KILLPG 2J
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH KILLPG 2 "27 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH KILLPG 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
killpg \- send signal to a process or a process group
E 2
I 2
killpg \- send signal to a process group
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.B killpg(pgrp, sig)
.PP
.B cc ... \-ljobs
E 2
I 2
.ft B
killpg(pgrp, sig)
.br
int pgrp, sig;
.ft R
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Killpg
sends the signal
.I sig
D 2
to the specified process group.
E 2
I 2
to the process group
.IR pgrp .
E 2
See
D 2
.IR sigsys (2)
for a list of signals;
see
.IR jobs (3)
for an explanation of process groups.
E 2
I 2
.IR sigvec (2)
for a list of signals.
E 2
.PP
The sending process and members of the process group must
D 5
have the same effective user ID, otherwise
this call is restricted to the super-user.
E 5
I 5
have the same effective user ID, or
the sender must be the super-user.
E 5
As a single special case the continue signal SIGCONT may be sent
D 2
to any process which is a descendant of the current process.  This
allows a command interpreter such as
.IR csh (1)
to restart set-user-id processes stopped from the keyboard with a stop signal.
.PP
The calls
.IP
.B "killpg(0, sig)"
.LP
and
.IP
.B "kill(0, sig)
.LP
have identical effects, sending the signal to all members of the
invoker's process group (including the process itself).
It is preferable to use the call involving
.I kill
in this case, as it is portable to other UNIX systems.
E 2
I 2
D 4
to any process which is a descendant of the current process.
E 4
I 4
to any process that is a descendant of the current process.
E 4
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  Otherwise,
a value of \-1 is returned and the global variable \fIerrno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS
\fIKillpg\fP will fail and no signal will be sent if any of the
following occur:
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
\fISig\fP is not a valid signal number.
.TP 15
[ESRCH]
D 5
No process can be found corresponding to that specified by \fIpid\fP.
E 5
I 5
No process can be found in the process group specified by \fIpgrp\fP.
.TP 15
[ESRCH]
The process group was given as 0
but the sending process does not have a process group.
E 5
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The sending process is not the super-user and one or more
of the target processes has an effective user ID different from that
of the sending process.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
jobs(3), kill(2), sigsys(2), signal(2), csh(1), kill(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Zero is returned if the processes are sent the signals;
\-1 is returned if any process in the process group cannot be sent
the signal, or if there are no members in the process group.
.SH BUGS
The job control facilities are not available in standard version 7 UNIX.
These facilities are still under development and may change in future
releases of the system as better inter-process communication facilities
and support for virtual terminals become available.  The options and
specifications of this system call and even the call itself
are thus subject to change.
E 2
I 2
kill(2), getpgrp(2), sigvec(2)
E 2
E 1
