h33450
s 00013/00001/00098
d D 6.3 85/08/26 23:30:48 mckusick 5 4
c update error messages (mostly from sun!guy)
e
s 00016/00012/00083
d D 6.2 85/05/22 18:30:29 mckusick 4 3
c update the error return codes to reflect those in 4.3BSD
e
s 00001/00001/00094
d D 6.1 85/05/09 16:05:54 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00076/00028/00019
d D 5.1 85/05/09 16:05:43 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00047/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 16:05:34 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH LINK 2 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH LINK 2 "12 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH LINK 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
link \- link to a file
E 2
I 2
link \- make a hard link to a file
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
D 2
.B link(name1, name2)
.B char *name1, *name2;
E 2
I 2
.ft B
link(name1, name2)
char *name1, *name2;
E 2
.fi
I 2
.ft R
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
A link
E 2
I 2
A hard link
E 2
to
.I name1
is created;
the link has the name
.IR name2 .
D 2
Either name may be an arbitrary path name.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ln(1), unlink(2)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Zero is returned when a link is made;
\-1 is returned when
E 2
I 2
.I Name1
must exist.
.PP
With hard links,
both
E 2
.I name1
D 2
cannot be found; when
E 2
I 2
and
E 2
.I name2
D 2
already exists; when the directory of
.I name2
cannot be written; when
an attempt is made to link to a directory by a user
other than the super-user;
when an attempt is made to link
to a file on another file system;
when a file has too many links.
.PP
On some systems
the super-user may link
to non-ordinary files.
.SH "ASSEMBLER (PDP-11)"
(link = 9.)
.br
.B sys link; name1; name2
E 2
I 2
must be in the same file system.
Unless the caller is the super-user,
.I name1
must not be a directory.
Both the old and the new
.I link
share equal access and rights to
the underlying object.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  Otherwise,
a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS
.I Link
will fail and no link will be created if one or more of the following
are true:
.TP 15
D 4
[EPERM]
Either pathname contains a byte with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
Either pathname was too long.
.TP 15
E 4
[ENOTDIR]
A component of either path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
I 4
[EINVAL]
Either pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of either pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or entire length of either path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
E 4
[ENOENT]
A component of either path prefix does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
A component of either path prefix denies search permission.
.TP 15
I 4
[EACCES]
The requested link requires writing in a directory with a mode
that denies write permission.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating one of the pathnames.
.TP 15
E 4
[ENOENT]
The file named by \fIname1\fP does not exist.
.TP 15
[EEXIST]
The link named by \fIname2\fP does exist.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The file named by \fIname1\fP is a directory and the effective
user ID is not super-user.
.TP 15
[EXDEV]
The link named by \fIname2\fP and the file named by \fIname1\fP
are on different file systems.
.TP 15
I 5
[ENOSPC]
The directory in which the entry for the new link is being placed
cannot be extended because there is no space left on the file
system containing the directory.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The directory in which the entry for the new link
is being placed cannot be extended because the
user's quota of disk blocks on the file system
containing the directory has been exhausted.
.TP 15
E 5
D 4
[EACCES]
The requested link requires writing in a directory with a mode
that denies write permission.
E 4
I 4
[EIO]
D 5
An I/O error occurred while making the directory entry.
E 5
I 5
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to 
the file system to make the directory entry.
E 5
E 4
.TP 15
[EROFS]
The requested link requires writing in a directory on a read-only file
system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
One of the pathnames specified
is outside the process's allocated address space.
D 4
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
E 4
.SH "SEE ALSO"
symlink(2), unlink(2)
E 2
E 1
