h55108
s 00000/00003/00091
d D 6.3 86/02/24 03:33:11 lepreau 5 4
c lseek doesn't mind negative offsets, read & write do;
c bring write.2 up to read.2 stds.
e
s 00003/00002/00091
d D 6.2 85/10/28 16:42:24 mckusick 4 3
c cleanup of return value
e
s 00010/00004/00083
d D 6.1 85/05/09 16:39:38 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00055/00042/00032
d D 5.1 85/05/09 16:39:30 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00074/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 16:39:23 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH LSEEK 2 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH LSEEK 2 "7 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH LSEEK 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
lseek, tell \- move read/write pointer
E 2
I 2
lseek \- move read/write pointer
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
D 2
.B long lseek(fildes, offset, whence)
.B long offset;
E 2
I 2
.ft B
D 3
.ta 1.25i 1.6i
E 3
I 3
#include <sys/file.h>
.PP
.nf
.ft B
.ta 1.25i 1.6i 1.8i
E 3
#define L_SET	0	/* set the seek pointer */
#define L_INCR	1	/* increment the seek pointer */
#define L_XTND	2	/* extend the file size */
E 2
.PP
D 2
.B long tell(fildes)
E 2
I 2
.ft B
pos = lseek(d, offset, whence)
D 3
int pos;
int d, offset, whence;
E 3
I 3
off_t pos;
int d;
off_t offset;
int whence;
E 3
E 2
.fi
I 2
.ft R
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
The file
descriptor refers to a file open for reading or writing.
The read (resp. write) pointer for the file is set as follows:
E 2
I 2
The descriptor 
.I d
refers to a file or device open for reading and/or writing.
.I Lseek
sets the file pointer of
.I d
as follows:
E 2
.IP
If
.I whence
D 2
is 0, the pointer is set to
E 2
I 2
is L_SET, the pointer is set to
E 2
.I offset
bytes.
.IP
If
.I whence
D 2
is 1, the pointer is set to its current location plus
E 2
I 2
is L_INCR, the pointer is set to its current location plus
E 2
.IR offset .
.IP
If
.I whence
D 2
is 2, the pointer is set to the size of the
E 2
I 2
is L_XTND, the pointer is set to the size of the
E 2
file plus
.IR offset .
.PP
D 2
The returned value is the resulting pointer location.
.PP
The obsolete function
.IR tell ( fildes )
is identical to
.IR lseek ( "fildes, 0L, 1" ).
.PP
E 2
I 2
Upon successful completion, the resulting pointer location
as measured in bytes from beginning of the file is returned.
Some devices are incapable of seeking.  The value of the pointer
associated with such a device is undefined.
.SH NOTES
E 2
Seeking far beyond the end of a file, then writing,
D 2
creates a gap or `hole', which occupies no
E 2
I 2
creates a gap or \*(lqhole\*(rq, which occupies no
E 2
physical space and reads as zeros.
I 2
.SH "RETURN VALUE
D 4
Upon successful completion, a non-negative integer,
the current file pointer value, is returned.  Otherwise,
E 4
I 4
Upon successful completion,
the current file pointer value is returned.
Otherwise,
E 4
a value of \-1 is returned and \fIerrno\fP is set to indicate
the error.
.SH "ERRORS
.I Lseek
will fail and the file pointer will remain unchanged if:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
.I Fildes
is not an open file descriptor.
.TP 15
[ESPIPE]
.I Fildes
is associated with a pipe or a socket.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
.I Whence
is not a proper value.
D 5
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The resulting file pointer would be negative.
E 5
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
open(2), creat(2), fseek(3)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\-1
is returned for
an undefined file descriptor,
seek on a pipe,
or seek to a position before the beginning of file.
E 2
I 2
dup(2), open(2)
E 2
.SH BUGS
D 2
.I Lseek
is a no-op on character special files.
.SH "ASSEMBLER (PDP-11)"
(lseek = 19.)
.br
(file descriptor in r0)
.br
.B sys lseek; offset1; offset2; whence
.PP
.I Offset1
and
.I offset2
are the high and low words of 
.IR offset ;
r0 and r1 contain
the pointer upon return.
E 2
I 2
This document's use of
.I whence
is incorrect English, but maintained for historical reasons.
E 2
E 1
