h06159
s 00032/00003/00081
d D 6.4 85/08/26 23:33:00 mckusick 5 4
c update error messages (mostly from sun!guy)
e
s 00000/00003/00084
d D 6.3 85/08/07 09:52:46 karels 4 3
c don't need to be su to mkdir
e
s 00022/00009/00065
d D 6.2 85/05/22 18:31:50 mckusick 3 2
c update the error return codes to reflect those in 4.3BSD
e
s 00001/00001/00073
d D 6.1 85/05/15 11:57:30 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00074/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 11:57:22 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH MKDIR 2 "27 July 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH MKDIR 2 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
mkdir \- make a directory file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
mkdir(path, mode)
char *path;
int mode;
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mkdir
creates a new directory file with name
.IR path .
The mode of the new file
is initialized from
.IR mode .
(The protection part of the mode
is modified by the process's mode mask; see
.IR umask (2)).
.PP
The directory's owner ID is set to the process's effective user ID.
The directory's group ID is set to that of the parent directory in
which it is created.
.PP
The low-order 9 bits of mode are modified by the process's
file mode creation mask: all bits set in the process's file mode
creation mask are cleared.  See
.IR umask (2).
.SH "RETURN VALUE
A 0 return value indicates success.  A \-1 return value
indicates an error, and an error code is stored in
.I errno.
.SH "ERRORS
.I Mkdir
will fail and no directory will be created if:
.TP 15
D 3
[EPERM]
The process's effective user ID is not super-user.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The \fIpath\fP argument contains a byte with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
E 3
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
I 3
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
E 3
[ENOENT]
A component of the path prefix does not exist.
.TP 15
I 3
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
D 4
The process's effective user ID is not super-user.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
E 4
The \fIpath\fP argument contains a byte with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
E 3
[EROFS]
The named file resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EEXIST]
The named file exists.
.TP 15
I 5
[ENOSPC]
The directory in which the entry for the new directory is being placed
cannot be extended because there is no space left on the file
system containing the directory.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
The new directory cannot be created because there
there is no space left on the file
system that will contain the directory.
.TP 15
[ENOSPC]
There are no free inodes on the file system on which the
directory is being created.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The directory in which the entry for the new directory
is being placed cannot be extended because the
user's quota of disk blocks on the file system
containing the directory has been exhausted.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The new directory cannot be created because the user's
quota of disk blocks on the file system that will
contain the directory has been exhausted.
.TP 15
[EDQUOT]
The user's quota of inodes on the file system on
which the directory is being created has been exhausted.
.TP 15
E 5
I 3
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while making the directory entry or allocating the inode.
.TP 15
I 5
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.TP 15
E 5
E 3
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
D 3
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
E 3
D 5
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occured while writing to the file system.
E 5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chmod(2), stat(2), umask(2)
E 1
