h20988
s 00012/00001/00180
d D 6.3 85/08/26 23:31:46 mckusick 5 4
c update error messages (mostly from sun!guy)
e
s 00043/00027/00138
d D 6.2 85/05/22 18:30:58 mckusick 4 3
c update the error return codes to reflect those in 4.3BSD
e
s 00001/00001/00164
d D 6.1 85/05/09 16:40:44 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00098/00028/00067
d D 5.1 85/05/09 16:40:31 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00095/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 16:40:21 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH MOUNT 2 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH MOUNT 2 "27 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH MOUNT 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
mount, umount \- mount or remove file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
D 2
.B mount(special, name, rwflag)
.B char *special, *name;
E 2
I 2
.ft B
mount(special, name, rwflag)
char *special, *name;
int rwflag;
E 2
.PP
D 2
.B umount(special)
.B char *special;
E 2
I 2
.ft B
umount(special)
char *special;
E 2
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mount
announces to the system that a removable file system has
been mounted on
the block-structured special file
.I special;
from now on, references to file
.I name
will refer to
the root file on the newly mounted file system.
.I Special
and
.I name
are pointers to null-terminated strings
containing the appropriate path names.
.PP
.I Name
must exist already. 
.I Name
D 2
must be a directory (unless the root of the mounted file system
is not a directory).
E 2
I 2
must be a directory.
E 2
Its old contents
are inaccessible while the file system
is mounted.
.PP
The
.I rwflag
argument determines whether
the file system can be written on; if it is 0 writing
is allowed, if non-zero no writing is done.
Physically write-protected and magnetic
tape file systems must be mounted read-only or
errors will occur when access times are updated,
whether or not any
explicit write is attempted.
.PP
.I Umount
announces to the system that the
.I special
file is no longer to contain a removable file system.
The associated file reverts to its ordinary interpretation.
D 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
E 2
I 2
.SH "RETURN VALUE
E 2
.I Mount
D 2
returns 0 if the action occurred; \-1 if
E 2
I 2
returns 0 if the action occurred, \-1 if
E 2
.I special
D 2
is inaccessible or not an appropriate file; if
E 2
I 2
is inaccessible or not an appropriate file, if
E 2
.I name
D 2
does not exist; if
E 2
I 2
does not exist, if
E 2
.I special
D 2
is already mounted; if
E 2
I 2
is already mounted, if
E 2
.I name
D 2
is in use; or if
E 2
I 2
is in use, or if
E 2
there are already too many
file systems mounted.
.PP
.I Umount
returns 0 if the action occurred; \-1 if
if the special file is inaccessible or
does not have a mounted file system,
or if there are active files in the mounted 
file system.
D 2
.SH BUGS
If a file containing holes
(unallocated blocks)
is read, even on a file system mounted read-only,
the system will attempt to fill in the holes
by writing on the device.
.SH "ASSEMBLER (PDP-11)"
(mount = 21.)
.br
.B sys  mount; special; name; rwflag
E 2
I 2
.SH ERRORS
.I Mount
will fail when one of the following occurs:
.TP 15
D 4
[NODEV]
E 4
I 4
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of either pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or the entire length of either path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating either pathname.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
E 4
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP 15
D 4
[NODEV]
.I Special
does not exist.
E 4
I 4
[ENOENT]
A component of \fIname\fP does not exist.
E 4
.TP 15
I 4
[ENODEV]
A component of \fIspecial\fP does not exist.
.TP 15
E 4
[ENOTBLK]
.I Special
is not a block device.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
The major device number of 
.I special
is out of range (this indicates no device driver exists
for the associated hardware).
.TP 15
D 4
[EPERM]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
E 4
[ENOTDIR]
D 4
A component of the path prefix in
.I name
is not a directory.
E 4
I 4
A component of \fIname\fP is not a directory,
or a path prefix of \fIspecial\fP is not a directory.
E 4
.TP 15
D 4
[EROFS]
.I Name
resides on a read-only file system.
E 4
I 4
[EINVAL]
Either pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
E 4
.TP 15
D 4
[EBUSY]
.I Name
is not a directory, or another process currently
holds a reference to it.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
No space remains in the mount table.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
E 4
I 4
[EINVAL]
E 4
The super block for the file system had a bad magic
number or an out of range block size.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
I 4
Another process currently holds a reference to
.IR name ,
or \fIspecial\fP is already mounted.
.TP 15
[EMFILE]
No space remains in the mount table.
.TP 15
[ENOMEM]
E 4
Not enough memory was available to read the cylinder
group information for the file system.
.TP 15
D 4
[EBUSY]
E 4
I 4
[EIO]
E 4
D 5
An i/o error occurred while reading the super block or
E 5
I 5
An I/O error occurred while reading the super block or
E 5
cylinder group information.
I 5
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
\fISpecial\fP or \fIname\fP points outside the
process's allocated address space.
E 5
E 2
.PP
D 2
(umount = 22.)
.br
.B sys  umount; special
E 2
I 2
.I Umount
may fail with one of the following errors:
.TP 15
D 4
[NODEV]
E 4
I 4
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
E 4
The caller is not the super-user.
.TP 15
D 4
[NODEV]
E 4
I 4
[ENODEV]
E 4
.I Special
does not exist.
.TP 15
[ENOTBLK]
.I Special
is not a block device.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
The major device number of 
.I special
is out of range (this indicates no device driver exists
for the associated hardware).
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The requested device is not in the mount table.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
A process is holding a reference to a file located
on the file system.
I 5
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while writing the super block or
other cached file system information.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
\fISpecial\fP points outside the process's allocated address space.
E 5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount(8), umount(8)
.SH BUGS
D 4
The error codes are in a state of disarray; too many errors
appear to the caller as one value.
E 4
I 4
Some of the error codes need translation to more obvious messages.
E 4
E 2
E 1
