h17001
s 00003/00000/00063
d D 6.4 85/08/26 23:33:07 mckusick 5 4
c update error messages (mostly from sun!guy)
e
s 00001/00001/00062
d D 6.3 85/06/30 16:44:28 sechrest 4 3
c added comma
e
s 00010/00016/00053
d D 6.2 85/05/22 18:31:54 mckusick 3 2
c update the error return codes to reflect those in 4.3BSD
e
s 00001/00001/00068
d D 6.1 85/05/15 11:58:02 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00069/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 11:57:56 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH READLINK 2 "2 July 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH READLINK 2 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
readlink \- read value of a symbolic link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
cc = readlink(path, buf, bufsiz)
int cc;
char *path, *buf;
int bufsiz;
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Readlink
places the contents of the symbolic link
.I name
in the buffer
D 4
.I buf
E 4
I 4
.I buf,
E 4
which has size
.IR bufsiz . 
The contents of the link are not null terminated when returned.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
The call returns the count of characters placed in the buffer
if it succeeds, or a \-1 if an error occurs, placing the error
code in the global variable \fIerrno\fP.
.SH "ERRORS
.I Readlink
will fail and the file mode will be unchanged if:
.TP 15
D 3
[EPERM]
The \fIpath\fP argument contained a byte with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The pathname was too long.
.TP 15
E 3
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
I 3
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
E 3
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
.TP 15
D 3
[ENXIO]
The named file is not a symbolic link.
.TP 15
E 3
[EACCES]
D 3
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
E 3
I 3
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
E 3
.TP 15
D 3
[EPERM]
The effective user ID does not match the owner of the file and
the effective user ID is not the super-user.
E 3
I 3
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
E 3
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The named file is not a symbolic link.
.TP 15
I 5
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while reading from the file system.
.TP 15
E 5
[EFAULT]
.I Buf
extends outside the process's allocated address space.
D 3
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
E 3
.SH SEE ALSO
stat(2), lstat(2), symlink(2)
E 1
