h61599
s 00001/00001/00070
d D 6.1 85/05/09 17:45:07 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00022/00045/00049
d D 5.1 85/05/09 17:44:43 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00094/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 17:44:07 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH REBOOT 2V 4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH REBOOT 2 "18 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH REBOOT 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
reboot \- reboot system or halt processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/reboot.h>
.PP
.B reboot(howto)
.B int howto;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Reboot
D 2
is used to cause a system reboot, and is invoked automatically
E 2
I 2
reboots the system, and is invoked automatically
E 2
in the event of unrecoverable system failures.
.I Howto
is a mask of options passed to the bootstrap program.
The system call interface permits only RB_HALT or RB_AUTOBOOT
to be passed to the reboot program; the other flags
are used in scripts stored on the console storage media, or used
in manual bootstrap procedures.
When none of these options (e.g. RB_AUTOBOOT) is given, the system is rebooted
from file \*(lqvmunix\*(rq in the root file system of unit 0
D 2
of a disk chosen in a processor specific way:
on the 11/780 it is specified by a line in the DEFBOO.CMD script on
the console floppy; on the 11/750 it is determined by the setting
of the front panel switch which picks the bootstrap device.
.\"On the 11/730 it is determined by a file on the console casette.
E 2
I 2
of a disk chosen in a processor specific way.
E 2
An automatic consistency check of the disks is then normally performed.
.PP
The bits of
.I howto
are:
.TP
RB_HALT
the processor is simply halted; no reboot takes place.
D 2
This should be used with caution.
E 2
I 2
RB_HALT should be used with caution.
E 2
.TP
RB_ASKNAME
Interpreted by the bootstrap program itself, causing it to
inquire as to what file should be booted.  Normally, the system is
D 2
booted from the file \*(lqxx(0,0)vmunix\*(rq without asking, where
.I xx
is determined by a code in register
.I r10
(which is known as
.I devtype)
at entry to the bootstrap program.  The code corresponds to the
major device number of the root file system, i.e. \*(lqmajor(rootdev)\*(rq.
Currently, the following values of
.I devtype
are understood:
.RS
.br
.ns
.IP
.nf
0	hp	rm03/rm05/rm80/rp06 massbus disk
1	--	unused
2	up	unibus disks (emulex sc21 w/ cdc/ampex/fujitsu drives)
3	rk	rk07 unibus disks
.fi
.RE
.IP
Thus if
.I r10
contained a 2, the system
.RS
.IP
.B up(0,0)vmunix.
.RE
.IP
would be booted.
This switch not available from the system call interface.
E 2
I 2
booted from the file \*(lqxx(0,0)vmunix\*(rq without asking.
E 2
.TP
RB_SINGLE
Normally, the reboot procedure involves an automatic disk consistency
D 2
check and then multi-user operations.  This prevents the consistency
E 2
I 2
check and then multi-user operations.  RB_SINGLE prevents the consistency
E 2
check, rather simply booting the system with a single-user shell on
D 2
the console, from the file system specified by
.I r10.
This switch is interpreted by the
E 2
I 2
the console.
RB_SINGLE is interpreted by the
E 2
.IR init (8)
program in the newly booted system.
This switch is not available from the system call interface.
I 2
.PP
Only the super-user may
.I reboot
a machine.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
If successful, this call never returns.  Otherwise, a \-1
is returned and an error is returned in the global variable
.IR errno .
.SH ERRORS
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the super-user.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
crash(8), halt(8), init(8), reboot(8)
.SH BUGS
I 2
The notion of ``console medium'', among other things,
is specific to the VAX.
E 2
E 1
