h42071
s 00005/00000/00073
d D 6.3 85/08/26 23:33:15 mckusick 4 3
c update error messages (mostly from sun!guy)
e
s 00017/00012/00056
d D 6.2 85/05/22 18:32:01 mckusick 3 2
c update the error return codes to reflect those in 4.3BSD
e
s 00001/00001/00067
d D 6.1 85/05/15 11:58:50 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00068/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 11:58:44 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH RMDIR 2 "2 July 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH RMDIR 2 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
rmdir \- remove a directory file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
rmdir(path)
char *path;
.fi
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Rmdir
removes a directory file
whose name is given by
.I path.
The directory must not have any entries other
than \*(lq.\*(rq and \*(lq..\*(rq.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
A 0 is returned if the remove succeeds; otherwise a \-1 is
returned and an error code is stored in the global location \fIerrno\fP\|.
.SH ERRORS
The named file is removed unless one or more of the
following are true:
.TP 15
D 3
[ENOTEMPTY]
The named directory contains files other than ``.'' and ``..'' in it.
E 3
I 3
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path is not a directory.
E 3
.TP 15
D 3
[EPERM]
E 3
I 3
[EINVAL]
E 3
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
I 3
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
E 3
[ENOENT]
D 3
The pathname was too long.
E 3
I 3
The named directory does not exist.
E 3
.TP 15
D 3
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
E 3
I 3
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
E 3
.TP 15
D 3
[ENOENT]
The named file does not exist.
E 3
I 3
[ENOTEMPTY]
The named directory contains files other than ``.'' and ``..'' in it.
E 3
.TP 15
[EACCES]
D 3
A component of the path prefix denies search permission.
E 3
I 3
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
E 3
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Write permission is denied on the directory containing the link
to be removed.
.TP 15
I 4
[EPERM]
The directory containing the directory to be removed is marked sticky,
and neither the containing directory nor the directory to be removed
are owned by the effective user ID.
.TP 15
E 4
[EBUSY]
The directory to be removed is the mount point
for a mounted file system.
.TP 15
I 3
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while deleting the directory entry
or deallocating the inode.
.TP 15
E 3
[EROFS]
The directory entry to be removed resides on a read-only file system.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Path
points outside the process's allocated address space.
D 3
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
E 3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkdir(2), unlink(2)
E 1
