h30994
s 00001/00001/00049
d D 6.1 85/05/09 17:46:42 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00028/00038/00022
d D 5.1 85/05/09 17:46:17 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00060/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 17:45:50 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH SETPGRP 2J
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH SETPGRP 2 "12 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH SETPGRP 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
setpgrp, getpgrp \- set/get process group
E 2
I 2
setpgrp \- set process group
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.B int getpgrp(pid)
.PP
.B setpgrp(pid, pgrp)
.PP
.B cc ... \-ljobs
E 2
I 2
.ft B
setpgrp(pid, pgrp)
.br
int pid, pgrp;
.ft R
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
The process group of the specified process is returned by
.I getpgrp.
E 2
.I Setpgrp
sets the process group of the specified process
.I pid
to the specified
D 2
.I pgrp.
E 2
I 2
.IR pgrp .
E 2
If
.I pid
is zero, then the call applies to the current process.
.PP
If the invoker is not the super-user, then the affected process
must have the same effective user-id as the invoker or be a descendant
of the invoking process.
D 2
.PP
This call is used by
.IR csh (1)
to create
process groups
in implementing job control.
The TIOCGPGRP and TIOCSPGRP calls
described in
.IR tty (4)
are used to get/set the process group of the control terminal.
.PP
See
.IR jobs(3)
for a general discussion of job control.
E 2
I 2
.SH "RETURN VALUE
.I Setpgrp
returns when the operation was successful.  If
the request failed, \-1 is returned and the global
variable
.I errno
indicates the reason.
.SH ERRORS
.I Setpgrp
will fail and the process group will not be altered if
one of the following occur:
.TP 15
[ESRCH]
The requested process does not exist.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The effective user ID of the requested process is different
from that of the caller and the process is not a descendent
of the calling process.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
jobs(3), getuid(2), tty(4)
.SH BUGS
The job control facilities are not available in standard version 7 UNIX.
These facilities are still under development and may change in future
releases of the system as better inter-process communication facilities
and support for virtual terminals become available.  The options and
specifications of these system calls and even the calls themselves
are thus subject to change.
.PP
A system call
.I setpgrp
has been implemented in other versions of UNIX which are not widely
used outside of Bell Laboratories; these implementations
have, in general, slightly different semantics.
E 2
I 2
getpgrp(2)
E 2
E 1
