h00322
s 00005/00001/00036
d R 6.2 86/01/07 14:04:29 donn 3 2
c int => gid_t
e
s 00004/00005/00033
d D 6.1 85/05/15 12:00:10 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00038/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 12:00:03 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH SETREGID 2 "12 February 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH SETREGID 2 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
setregid \- set real and effective group ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
setregid(rgid, egid)
.br
int rgid, egid;
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The real and effective group ID's of the current process
are set to the arguments.
D 2
Only the super-user may change the real group ID
of a process.  Unpriviledged users may change the
effective group ID to the real group ID, but to
no other.
E 2
I 2
Unprivileged users may change the real group
ID to the effective group ID and vice-versa; only the super-user may
make other changes.
E 2
.PP
Supplying a value of \-1 for either the real or effective
group ID forces the system to substitute the current
ID in place of the \-1 parameter.
.SH "RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  Otherwise,
a value of \-1 is returned and \fIerrno\fP is set to indicate the error.
.SH "ERRORS
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The current process is not the super-user and a change
other than changing the effective group-id to the real group-id
was specified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getgid(2), setreuid(2), setgid(3)
E 1
