h19252
s 00004/00000/00083
d D 6.4 86/03/09 17:54:32 donn 6 5
c Document the return value (now that there is actually a program
c which uses it!).
e
s 00025/00000/00058
d D 6.3 85/08/26 23:32:27 mckusick 5 4
c update error messages (mostly from sun!guy)
e
s 00025/00000/00033
d D 6.2 85/05/22 18:31:37 mckusick 4 3
c update the error return codes to reflect those in 4.3BSD
e
s 00001/00001/00032
d D 6.1 85/05/09 18:32:01 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00016/00012/00017
d D 5.1 85/05/09 18:31:16 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00029/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 18:30:42 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH VSWAPON 2V
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH SWAPON 2 "27 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH SWAPON 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
vswapon \- add a swap device for interleaved paging/swapping
E 2
I 2
swapon \- add a swap device for interleaved paging/swapping
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
D 2
.B vswapon(name)
.B char *name;
E 2
I 2
.B swapon(special)
.B char *special;
E 2
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
.I Vswapon
makes the argument block device available to the system for
allocation for paging and swapping.  The number of blocks to be
made available, as well as the names of all potentially available
devices are known to the system, and are present in the system
configuration file (e.g. /usr/src/sys/conf/confhp.c).
E 2
I 2
.I Swapon
makes the block device 
.I special 
available to the system for
allocation for paging and swapping.  The names of potentially
available devices are known to the system and defined at system
configuration time.  The size of the swap area on 
.I special 
is calculated at the time the device is first made available
for swapping.
I 6
.SH "RETURN VALUE
If an error has occurred, a value of \-1 is returned and
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
E 6
I 4
.SH ERRORS
.I Swapon
succeeds unless:
.TP 15
[ENOTDIR]
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The pathname contains a character with the high-order bit set.
.TP 15
[ENAMETOOLONG]
A component of a pathname exceeded 255 characters,
or an entire path name exceeded 1023 characters.
.TP 15
[ENOENT]
The named device does not exist.
.TP 15
[EACCES]
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP 15
[ELOOP]
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.TP 15
[EPERM]
The caller is not the super-user.
I 5
.TP 15
[ENOTBLK]
.I Special
is not a block device.
.TP 15
[EBUSY]
The device specified by \fIspecial\fP has already
been made available for swapping
.TP 15
[EINVAL]
The device configured by \fIspecial\fP was not
configured into the system as a swap device.
.TP 15
[ENXIO]
The major device number of 
.I special
is out of range (this indicates no device driver exists
for the associated hardware).
.TP 15
[EIO]
An I/O error occurred while opening the swap device.
.TP 15
[EFAULT]
.I Special
points outside the process's allocated address space.
E 5
E 4
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
swapon(8)
E 2
I 2
swapon(8), config(8)
E 2
.SH BUGS
There is no way to stop swapping on a disk so that the pack may be
dismounted.
.PP
D 2
This call is peculiar to this version of UNIX.
E 2
I 2
This call will be upgraded in future versions of the system.
E 2
E 1
