h21742
s 00001/00001/00032
d D 6.1 85/05/09 16:08:06 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00017/00021/00016
d D 5.1 85/05/09 16:07:58 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00037/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/09 16:07:52 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH UMASK 2
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH UMASK 2 "12 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH UMASK 2 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
umask \- set file creation mode mask
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.B umask(complmode)
E 2
I 2
.ft B
oumask = umask(numask)
.br
int oumask, numask;
.ft R
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Umask
D 2
sets a mask used whenever a file is created by
.IR creat (2)
or
.IR mknod (2):
the actual mode (see
.IR chmod (2))
of the newly-created file is the logical
.B and
of the given mode and the complement of the argument.
Only the low-order 9 bits of the mask (the protection bits)
participate.
In other words, the mask shows the bits to be turned off
when files are created.
E 2
I 2
sets the process's file mode creation mask to \fInumask\fP
and returns the previous value of the mask.  The low-order
9 bits of \fInumask\fP are used whenever a file is created,
clearing corresponding bits in the file mode
(see
.IR chmod (2)).
This clearing allows each user to restrict the default access
to his files.
E 2
.PP
D 2
The previous value of the mask is returned by the call.
E 2
The value is initially 022 (write access for owner only).
The mask is inherited by child processes.
I 2
.SH "RETURN VALUE
The previous value of the file mode mask is returned by the call.
E 2
.SH SEE ALSO
D 2
creat(2), mknod(2), chmod(2)
.SH "ASSEMBLER (PDP-11)"
(umask = 60.)
.br
.B sys umask; complmode
E 2
I 2
chmod(2), mknod(2), open(2)
E 2
E 1
