h06820
s 00006/00005/00092
d D 4.3 83/07/01 12:48:55 rrh 3 2
c document dbx, discard sdb, document multiple files
e
s 00000/00000/00097
d D 4.2 82/02/14 17:56:17 rrh 2 1
c Synchronizing this new file to release 4.2
e
s 00097/00000/00000
d D 4.1 82/02/14 17:55:31 rrh 1 0
c date and time created 82/02/14 17:55:31 by rrh
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1982 Regents of the University of California
.\" 
.\" %Z%%M% %I% %G%
.\" 
D 3
.TH AS 1 VAX-11
E 3
I 3
.TH AS 1 "July 1, 1983"
E 3
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 3
as \- assembler
E 3
I 3
as \- VAX-11 assembler
E 3
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B as
[
.B \-d124
] [
.B \-L
] [
.B \-W
] [
.B \-V
] [
.B \-J
] [
.B \-R
] [
.B \-t
directory
] [
.B \-o
objfile ] [ name ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I As
assembles the named files, or the standard input if no file name is specified.
The available flags are:
.TP
.B \-d
Specifies the number of bytes to be assembled for offsets
which involve forward or external references, and which have sizes unspecified
in the assembly language.
The default is 
.B \-d4.
.TP
.B \-L
Save defined labels beginning with a `L', which are normally discarded
to save space in the resultant symbol table.
The compilers generate such temporary labels.
.TP
.B \-V
D 3
Use virtual memory for intermediate storage, rather than a temporary file.
E 3
I 3
Use virtual memory for some intermediate storage,
rather than a temporary file.
E 3
.TP
.B \-W
Do not complain about errors.
.TP
.B \-J
Use long branches to resolve jumps when byte-displacement branches are
insufficient.  This must be used when a compiler-generated assembly contains
branches of more than 32k bytes.
.TP
.B \-R
Make initialized data segments read-only, by concatenating them to
the text segments.
This obviates the need to run editor scripts on assembly
code to make initialized data read-only and shared.
.TP
.B \-t
Specifies a directory to receive the temporary file, other than
the default /tmp.
.PP
All undefined symbols in the assembly
are treated as global.
.PP
The output of the assembly is left on the file
.I objfile;
if that is omitted,
.I a.out
is used.
.SH FILES
.ta 1.5i
D 3
/tmp/as\(**	default temporary file
E 3
I 3
/tmp/as\(**	default temporary files
E 3
.br
a.out		default resultant object file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ld(1),
nm(1),
adb(1),
D 3
sdb(1),
E 3
I 3
dbx(1),
E 3
a.out(5)
.br
Auxiliary documentation
.I Assembler Reference Manual.
.SH AUTHORS
John F. Reiser
.br
Robert R. Henry
.SH BUGS
.B \-J
should be eliminated; the assembler should automatically choose among
byte, word and long branches.
E 1
