h10190
s 00033/00004/00026
d D 6.2 85/06/07 20:36:01 kre 3 2
c From Jerry Berkman
e
s 00001/00001/00029
d D 6.1 85/05/15 16:13:32 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00030/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 16:13:22 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH ABORT 3F "18 July 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH ABORT 3F "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
D 3
abort \- terminate abruptly with memory image
E 3
I 3
abort \- abnormal termination
E 3
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B subroutine abort (string)
.br
.B character*(*) string
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Abort
D 3
cleans up the I/O buffers and then aborts producing a
E 3
I 3
cleans up the I/O buffers and then terminates execution.
If
.I string
is given, it is written to logical unit 0 preceded by ``abort:''.
.PP
If the
.B \(mig
flag was specified during loading,
then execution is terminated by calling
.I abort
(3)
which aborts producing a
E 3
.I core
file in the current directory.
If
D 3
.I string
is given, it is written to logical unit 0 preceeded by ``abort:''.
E 3
I 3
.B \-g
was not specified while loading,
then
.I ***\ Execution terminated
is written
on logical unit 0 and execution is terminated.
.PP
If the
.I f77_dump_flag
environment variable
has been set to a value which begins with
.IR y , \ abort
(3) is called whether or not
.B \(mig
was specified during loading.
Similarly, if the value of
.I f77_dump_flag
begins with
.IR n , \ abort
is not called.
E 3
.SH FILES
.ie \nM /usr/ucb/lib/libF77.a
.el /usr/lib/libF77.a
.SH "SEE ALSO"
abort(3)
.SH BUGS
.I String
is ignored on the PDP11.
E 1
