h62011
s 00001/00001/00063
d D 6.4 86/04/30 15:08:36 mckusick 5 4
c spelling
e
s 00000/00001/00064
d D 6.3 85/09/05 15:29:37 mckusick 4 3
c update from jerry
e
s 00015/00004/00050
d D 6.2 85/06/07 20:37:10 kre 3 2
c From Jerry Berkman
e
s 00001/00001/00053
d D 6.1 85/05/15 16:14:37 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00054/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 16:14:29 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH BIT 3F "13 June 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH BIT 3F "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
bit \- and, or, xor, not, rshift, lshift bitwise functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B (intrinsic) function and (word1, word2)
.sp 1
.B (intrinsic) function or (word1, word2)
.sp 1
.B (intrinsic) function xor (word1, word2)
.sp 1
.B (intrinsic) function not (word)
.sp 1
.B (intrinsic) function rshift (word, nbits)
.sp 1
.B (intrinsic) function lshift (word, nbits)
.SH DESCRIPTION
These bitwise functions are built into the compiler and return
the data type of their argument(s).
D 4
It is recommended that their arguments be
E 4
I 3
Their arguments must be
E 3
.B integer
D 3
values;
inappropriate manipulation of
.B real
objects may cause unexpected results.
E 3
I 3
or
.B logical
values.
E 3
.PP
The bitwise combinatorial functions return the
bitwise ``and'' (\fBand\fR), ``or'' (\fBor\fR), or ``exclusive or'' (\fBxor\fR)
of two operands.
.B Not
returns the bitwise complement of its operand.
.PP
.IR Lshift ,
or
.I rshift
with a negative
.IR nbits ,
is a logical left shift with no end around carry.
.IR Rshift ,
or
.I lshift
with a negative
.IR nbits ,
D 5
is an arithmatic right shift with sign extension.
E 5
I 5
is an arithmetic right shift with sign extension.
E 5
No test is made for a reasonable value of
.I nbits.
I 3
.PP
These functions may be used to create a variety of general routines, as in
the following statement function definitions:
.sp 1
.B	integer bitset, bitclr, getbit, word, bitnum
.sp 1
.B	bitset( word, bitnum ) = or(word,lshift(1,bitnum))
.br
.B	bitclr( word, bitnum ) = and(word,not(lshift(1,bitnum)))
.br
.B	getbit( word, bitnum ) = and(rshift(word,bitnum),1)
E 3
.SH FILES
These functions are generated in-line by the f77 compiler.
E 1
