h08053
s 00002/00001/00051
d D 6.2 85/06/07 20:38:20 kre 3 2
c From Jerry Berkman
e
s 00001/00001/00051
d D 6.1 85/05/15 16:17:42 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00052/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 16:17:36 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH FLMIN 3F "13 June 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH FLMIN 3F "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
flmin, flmax, ffrac, dflmin, dflmax, dffrac, inmax \- return extreme values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B function flmin()
.sp 1
.B function flmax()
.sp 1
.B function ffrac()
.sp 1
.B double precision function dflmin()
.sp 1
.B double precision function dflmax()
.sp 1
.B double precision function dffrac()
.sp 1
.B function inmax()
.SH DESCRIPTION
Functions
.I flmin
and
.I flmax
return the minimum and maximum positive floating point values respectively.
Functions
.I dflmin
and
.I dflmax
return the minimum and maximum positive double precision floating point values.
Function
.I inmax
returns the maximum positive integer value.
.PP
The functions
.I ffrac
and
.I dffrac
return the fractional accuracy of single and double precision
floating point numbers respectively.
D 3
These are the smallest numbers that can be added to 1.0 without being lost.
E 3
I 3
This is the difference between 1.0 and the
smallest real number greater than 1.0.
E 3
.PP
These functions can be used by programs that must scale algorithms
to the numerical range of the processor.
.SH FILES
.ie \nM /usr/ucb/lib/libF77.a
.el /usr/lib/libF77.a
E 1
