h04111
s 00003/00003/00046
d D 6.2 86/05/27 10:27:53 kjd 3 2
c fix quotes
e
s 00001/00001/00048
d D 6.1 85/05/15 16:18:26 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00049/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 16:18:21 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH FSEEK 3F "18 July 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH FSEEK 3F "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
fseek, ftell \- reposition a file on a logical unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B integer function fseek (lunit, offset, from)
.br
.B integer offset, from
.sp 1
.B integer function ftell (lunit)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lunit
must refer to an open logical unit.
.I offset
is an offset in bytes relative to the position specified by
.I from.
Valid values for
.I from
are:
.sp 1
.in +5
D 3
0 meaning 'beginning of the file'
E 3
I 3
0 meaning `beginning of the file'
E 3
.br
D 3
1 meaning 'the current position'
E 3
I 3
1 meaning `the current position'
E 3
.br
D 3
2 meaning 'the end of the file'
E 3
I 3
2 meaning `the end of the file'
E 3
.in -5
.PP
The value returned by
.I fseek
will be 0 if successful, a system error code otherwise.
(See perror(3F))
.PP
.I Ftell
returns the current position of the file associated with the specified
logical unit. The value is an offset, in bytes, from the beginning of the file.
If the value returned is negative, it indicates an error and will be
the negation of the system error code. (See perror(3F))
.SH FILES
.ie \nM /usr/ucb/lib/libU77.a
.el /usr/lib/libU77.a
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fseek(3S), perror(3F)
E 1
