h15027
s 00001/00001/00029
d D 6.1 85/05/15 15:26:47 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00018/00029/00012
d D 5.1 85/05/15 15:26:30 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00041/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 15:26:13 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH GETARG 3F
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH GETARG 3F "18 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH GETARG 3F "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
getarg, iargc \- command arguments to Fortran
E 2
I 2
getarg, iargc \- return command line arguments
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.nf
.B subroutine getarg( argno, string )
.B integer argno
.B character *(*) string
.PP
.B iargc()
.fi
E 2
I 2
.B subroutine getarg (k, arg)
.br
.B character*(*) arg
.sp 1
.B function iargc ()
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
These procedures permit Fortran programs to access the command arguments.
The integer function
.B iargc
returns the number of command arguments.
The subroutine
.B getarg
stores the nth command argument in its second argument.
The string is truncated or padded with blanks,
in accord with the rules of Fortran character assignment.
E 2
I 2
A call to
.I getarg
will return the \fBk\fIth\fR command line argument in character string
.I arg.
The 0\fIth\fR argument is the command name.
E 2
.PP
D 2
The command
       go arg1 argument2
.br
will return 2 as the value of
.B iargc.
If \fBs\fR is declared character\(**4,
then
      call getarg(2, s)
.br
will put \*(lqargu\*(rq in \fBs\fR.
E 2
I 2
.I Iargc
returns the index of the last command line argument.
.SH FILES
.ie \nM /usr/ucb/lib/libU77.a
.el /usr/lib/libU77.a
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
exec(2)
E 2
I 2
getenv(3F), execve(2)
E 2
E 1
