h55793
s 00001/00001/00053
d D 6.1 85/05/15 16:29:47 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00054/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 16:29:42 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH STAT 3F "18 July 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH STAT 3F "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
stat, lstat, fstat \- get file status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B integer function stat (name, statb)
.br
.B character*(*) name
.br
.B integer statb(12)
.sp 1
.B integer function lstat (name, statb)
.br
.B character*(*) name
.br
.B integer statb(12)
.sp 1
.B integer function fstat (lunit, statb)
.br
.B integer statb(12)
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines return detailed information about a file.
.I Stat
and
.I lstat
return information about file
.IR name ;
.I fstat
returns information about the file associated with fortran logical unit
.I lunit.
The order and meaning of the information returned in array
.I statb
is as described for the structure
.I stat
under
.IR stat (2).
The ``spare'' values are not included.
.PP
The value of either function will be zero if successful;
an error code otherwise.
.SH FILES
.ie \nM /usr/ucb/lib/libU77.a
.el /usr/lib/libU77.a
.SH "SEE ALSO"
stat(2), access(3F), perror(3F), time(3F)
.SH BUGS
Pathnames can be no longer than MAXPATHLEN as defined in
.RI < sys/param.h >.
E 1
