h00994
s 00010/00005/00077
d D 5.3 88/07/09 11:40:15 bostic 3 2
c install approved copyright notice
e
s 00020/00002/00062
d D 5.2 88/06/08 18:27:39 bostic 2 1
c add tmpfile(), tempnam() and associate commentary
e
s 00064/00000/00000
d D 5.1 88/06/03 18:38:12 bostic 1 0
c date and time created 88/06/03 18:38:12 by bostic
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
D 3
.\" provided that this notice is preserved and that due credit is given
.\" to the University of California at Berkeley. The name of the University
.\" may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" software without specific prior written permission. This software
.\" is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
E 3
I 3
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
E 3
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.TH COMPATS5 3 "%Q%"
.UC 7
.SH NAME
memccpy, memchr, memcmp, memcpy, memset, strchr, 
D 2
strcspn, strpbrk, strrchr, strspn, strtok, tmpnam \- System V
compatibility routines
E 2
I 2
strcspn, strpbrk, strrchr, strspn, strtok, tempnam,
tmpfile, tmpnam \- System V compatibility routines
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B char *memccpy(from, to, ch, count)
.B char *from, *to;
.B int ch, count;
.PP
.B char *memchr(str, ch, count)
.B char *str;
.B int ch, count;
.PP
.B int memcmp(str1, str2, count)
.B char *str1, *str2;
.B int count;
.PP
.B char *memcpy(from, to, count)
.B char *from, to;
.B int count;
.PP
.B char *memset(str, ch, count)
.B char *str;
.B int ch, count;
.PP
.B char *strchr(str, ch);
.B char *str;
.B int ch;
.PP
.B int strcspn(str, chars)
.B char *str, *chars;
.PP
.B char *strpbrk(str, chars)
.B char *str, *chars;
.PP
.B char *strrchr(str, ch);
.B char *str;
.B int ch;
.PP
.B int strspn(str, chars)
.B char *str, *chars;
.PP
.B char *strtok(str, sep)
.B char *str, *sep;
.PP
I 2
.B char *tempnam(tmpdir, prefix)
.B char *tmpdir, *prefix;
.PP
.B char *tmpfile()
.PP
E 2
.B char *tmpnam(str)
.B char *str;
I 2
.PP
.SH COMMENT
The \fI#defines\fP \fIP_tmpdir\fP and \fIL_tmpnam\fP, used by the routines
\fItempnam\fP, \fItmpfile\fP, and \fItmpnam\fP are not available in
\fI<stdio.h>\fP.  If the code requires them, just use:
.PP
#include <sys/param.h>
.br
#define	P_tmpdir	"/usr/tmp"
#define	L_tmpnam	MAXPATHLEN
.PP
Also, note that the caveat in the System V manual page that these functions
can start recycling previously used names is untrue in this system.
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
The above routines are available and behave as in System V.
E 1
