h50827
s 00001/00001/00055
d D 6.1 85/05/15 14:54:44 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00008/00016/00048
d D 5.1 85/05/15 14:54:35 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00064/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 14:54:28 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH ECVT 3 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH ECVT 3  "19 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH ECVT 3  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
ecvt, fcvt, gcvt \- output conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B char *ecvt(value, ndigit, decpt, sign)
.B double value;
.B int ndigit, *decpt, *sign;
.PP
.B char *fcvt(value, ndigit, decpt, sign)
.B double value;
.B int ndigit, *decpt, *sign;
.PP
.B char *gcvt(value, ndigit, buf)
.B double value;
.B char *buf;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ecvt
converts the 
.I value
to a null-terminated string of
.I ndigit
D 2
ASCII digits
and returns a pointer thereto.
E 2
I 2
ASCII digits and returns a pointer thereto.
E 2
The position of the decimal point relative to the
D 2
beginning of the string is stored indirectly
through
E 2
I 2
beginning of the string is stored indirectly through
E 2
.IR decpt ""
D 2
(negative means to the left of the
returned digits).
If the sign of the result is negative,
the word pointed to by
E 2
I 2
(negative means to the left of the returned digits).
If the sign of the result is negative, the word pointed to by
E 2
.IR sign ""
D 2
is non-zero, otherwise
it is zero.
The low-order digit is rounded.
E 2
I 2
is non-zero, otherwise it is zero.  The low-order digit is rounded.
E 2
.PP
.IR Fcvt " is identical to " "ecvt\fR, except that the correct digit"
has been rounded for Fortran F-format output of the number
of digits specified by
.IR \(*_ndigits .
.PP
.I Gcvt
converts the
.I value
to a null-terminated ASCII string in
.I buf
and returns a pointer to 
.I buf.
It attempts to produce
.I ndigit
D 2
significant digits in Fortran F format if
possible, otherwise E format, ready for
printing.
Trailing zeros may be suppressed.
E 2
I 2
significant digits in Fortran F format if possible, otherwise E format,
ready for printing.  Trailing zeros may be suppressed.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
printf(3)
.SH BUGS
The return values point to static data
whose content is overwritten by each call.
E 1
