h05041
s 00002/00002/00119
d D 6.3 86/05/27 10:25:15 kjd 5 4
c fix quotes
e
s 00014/00001/00107
d D 6.2 86/05/14 18:12:19 karels 4 3
c document internal memory allocation, how to avoid
e
s 00001/00001/00107
d D 6.1 85/05/15 15:09:14 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00009/00016/00099
d D 5.1 85/05/15 15:09:02 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00115/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 15:08:53 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH FOPEN 3S  4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH FOPEN 3S  "1 April 1981"
E 3
I 3
.TH FOPEN 3S  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
fopen, freopen, fdopen \- open a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.SM
.B FILE
.B *fopen(filename, type)
.br
.B char *filename, *type;
.PP
.SM
.B FILE
.B *freopen(filename, type, stream)
.br
.B char *filename, *type;
.br
.SM
.B FILE
.B *stream;
.PP
.SM
.B FILE
.B *fdopen(fildes, type)
.br
.B char *type;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fopen
opens the file named by
.I filename
and associates a stream with it.
.I Fopen
D 2
returns a pointer to be used to identify
the stream in subsequent operations.
E 2
I 2
returns a pointer to be used to identify the stream in subsequent operations.
E 2
.PP
.I Type
is a character string having one of the following values:
.TP 5
"r"
open for reading
.ns
.TP 5
"w"
create for writing
.ns
.TP 5
"a"
D 2
append: open for writing at end
of file, or create for writing
E 2
I 2
append: open for writing at end of file, or create for writing
E 2
.PP
In addition, each
.I type
D 2
may be followed by a '+' to have the file opened for
reading and writing.  "r+" positions the 
stream at the beginning of the file, "w+" creates
E 2
I 2
D 5
may be followed by a '+' to have the file opened for reading and writing.
E 5
I 5
may be followed by a "+" to have the file opened for reading and writing.
E 5
"r+" positions the stream at the beginning of the file, "w+" creates
E 2
or truncates it, and "a+" positions it at the end.  Both reads and writes
may be used on read/write streams, with the limitation that an
.I fseek, rewind,
D 2
or reading an end-of-file must be used between a read and a write or
vice-versa.
E 2
I 2
or reading an end-of-file must be used between a read and a write or vice-versa.
E 2
.PP
.I Freopen
D 2
substitutes the named file in place
of the open
E 2
I 2
substitutes the named file in place of the open
E 2
.IR stream .
It returns the original value of
.IR stream .
The original stream is closed.
.PP
.I Freopen
D 2
is typically used to attach the preopened
constant names,
E 2
I 2
is typically used to attach the preopened constant names,
E 2
.B stdin, stdout, stderr,
to specified files.
.PP
.I Fdopen
associates a stream with a file descriptor obtained from
.I open, dup, creat,
or
.IR pipe (2).
The
.I type
of the stream must agree with the mode of the open file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
open(2),
fclose(3)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Fopen
and 
.I freopen
return the pointer
.SM
.B NULL
if
.I filename
D 4
cannot be accessed.
E 4
I 4
cannot be accessed,
if too many files are already open,
or if other resources needed cannot be allocated.
E 4
.SH BUGS
.I Fdopen
is not portable to systems other than UNIX.
.PP
The read/write 
.I types
do not exist on all systems.  Those systems without
read/write modes will probably treat the 
.I type
D 2
as if the '+' was not
present.
E 2
I 2
D 5
as if the '+' was not present.  These are unreliable in any event.
E 5
I 5
as if the "+" was not present.  These are unreliable in any event.
E 5
I 4
.PP
In order to support the same number of open files as does the system,
.I fopen
must allocate additional memory for data structures using
.I calloc
after 20 files have been opened.
This confuses some programs which use their own memory allocators.
An undocumented routine,
.IR f_prealloc ,
may be called to force immediate allocation of all internal memory
except for buffers.
E 4
E 2
E 1
