h48899
s 00001/00001/00082
d D 6.3 86/05/12 18:18:37 karels 5 4
c fmt
e
s 00001/00001/00082
d D 6.2 86/05/12 17:40:50 karels 4 3
c move from 3X to 3
e
s 00001/00001/00082
d D 6.1 85/05/15 15:28:59 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00024/00026/00059
d D 5.1 85/05/15 15:28:16 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00085/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 15:27:21 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH GETFSENT 3 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH GETFSENT 3X  "19 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
D 4
.TH GETFSENT 3X  "%Q%"
E 4
I 4
.TH GETFSENT 3  "%Q%"
E 4
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
getfsent, getfsspec, getfsfile, setfsent, endfsent \- get file system descriptor file entry
E 2
I 2
getfsent, getfsspec, getfsfile, getfstype, setfsent, endfsent \- get file system descriptor file entry
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <fstab.h>
.PP
.B struct fstab *getfsent()
.PP
D 2
.B struct fstab *getfsspec(name)
.B char *name;
E 2
I 2
.B struct fstab *getfsspec(spec)
.B char *spec;
E 2
.PP
D 2
.B struct fstab *getfsfile(name)
.B char *name;
E 2
I 2
.B struct fstab *getfsfile(file)
.B char *file;
E 2
.PP
D 2
.B int setfsend()
E 2
I 2
.B struct fstab *getfstype(type)
.B char *type;
E 2
.PP
I 2
.B int setfsent()
.PP
E 2
.B int endfsent()
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
.I Getfsent,
.I getfsspec
E 2
I 2
.IR Getfsent ,
.IR getfsspec ,
.IR getfstype ,
E 2
and
.I getfsfile
D 2
each return a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the file system description file,
.I /usr/include/fstab.h.
E 2
I 2
each return a pointer to an object with the following structure
containing the broken-out fields of a line in the file system description file,
.IR < fstab.h >.
E 2
.RS
.PP
.nf
D 2
#define	FSNMLG	16

E 2
D 5
struct fstab{
E 5
I 5
struct fstab {
E 5
D 2
	char	fs_spec[FSNMLG];
	char	fs_file[FSNMLG];
	char	fs_type[3];
E 2
I 2
	char	*fs_spec;
	char	*fs_file;
	char	*fs_type;
E 2
	int	fs_freq;
	int	fs_passno;
};
.ft R
.ad
.fi
.RE
.PP
The fields have meanings described in
.IR fstab (5).
.PP
.I Getfsent
reads the next line of the file, opening the file if necessary.
.PP
.I Setfsent
opens and rewinds the file.
.PP
.I Endfsent
closes the file.
.PP
.I Getfsspec
and
.I getfsfile
D 2
sequentially search from the beginning
of the file until a matching
special file name or
file system file name is found,
E 2
I 2
sequentially search from the beginning of the file until a matching
special file name or file system file name is found,
E 2
or until EOF is encountered.
I 2
.I Getfstype
does likewise, matching on the file system type field.
E 2
.SH FILES
/etc/fstab
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fstab(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Null pointer
(0) returned on EOF or error.
.SH BUGS
D 2
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
E 2
I 2
All information is contained in a static area so it must be copied if it is
E 2
to be saved.
E 1
