h38418
s 00024/00017/00077
d D 6.3 86/05/15 13:23:48 mckusick 5 4
c note use of ndbm
e
s 00008/00005/00086
d D 6.2 85/10/30 17:35:49 mckusick 4 3
c update return values for endpwent and setpwent
e
s 00016/00002/00075
d D 6.1 85/05/15 15:00:52 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00076
d D 5.1 85/05/15 15:00:45 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00077/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 15:00:39 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH GETPWENT 3 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH GETPWENT 3  "19 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH GETPWENT 3  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
D 3
getpwent, getpwuid, getpwnam, setpwent, endpwent \- get password file entry
E 3
I 3
getpwent, getpwuid, getpwnam, setpwent, endpwent, setpwfile \- get password file entry
E 3
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pwd.h>
.PP
D 5
.B struct passwd *getpwent()
.PP
E 5
.B struct passwd *getpwuid(uid)
.B int uid;
.PP
.B struct passwd *getpwnam(name)
.B char *name;
.PP
I 5
.B struct passwd *getpwent()
.PP
E 5
D 4
.B int setpwent()
E 4
I 4
.B setpwent()
E 4
.PP
D 4
.B int endpwent()
E 4
I 4
.B endpwent()
E 4
I 3
.PP
.B setpwfile(name)
.B char *name;
E 3
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getpwent,
.I getpwuid
and
.I getpwnam
each return a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the password file.
.RS
.PP
.nf
.so /usr/include/pwd.h
.ft R
.ad
.fi
.RE
.PP
The fields
.I pw_quota
and
.I pw_comment
are unused; the others have meanings described in
.IR passwd (5).
.PP
D 5
.I Getpwent
reads the next
line (opening the file if necessary);
.I setpwent
rewinds the file;
E 5
I 5
Searching of the password file is done using the \fIndbm\fP
database access routines.
.I Setpwent
opens the database;
E 5
.I endpwent
closes it.
I 5
.I Getpwuid
and
.I getpwnam
search the database (opening it if necessary) for a matching
.I uid
or
.IR name .
EOF is returned if there is no entry.
E 5
I 3
.PP
I 5
For programs wishing to read the entire database,
.I getpwent
reads the next
line (opening the database if necessary).
In addition to opening the database,
.I setpwent
can be used to make
.I getpwent
begin its search from the beginning of the database.
.PP
E 5
.I Setpwfile
changes the default password file to
.I name
thus allowing alternate password files to be used.
Note that it does
.I not
close the previous file.
If this is desired,
.I endpwent
should be called prior to it.
E 3
D 5
.PP
.I Getpwuid
and
.I getpwnam
search from the beginning until a matching
.I uid
or
.I name
is found
(or until EOF is encountered).
E 5
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
getlogin(3), getgrent(3), passwd(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
D 4
Null pointer
(0) returned on EOF or error.
E 4
I 4
The routines
.IR getpwent ,
.IR getpwuid ,
and
.IR getpwnam ,
return a null pointer (0) on EOF or error.
E 4
.SH BUGS
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
D 4
.br
E 4
E 1
