h30453
s 00022/00003/00209
d D 1.5 2013/01/20 00:23:00 msokolov 5 4
c calend_long explained
e
s 00125/00081/00087
d D 1.4 2012/06/19 07:57:31 msokolov 4 3
c a more sensible rewrite
e
s 00027/00001/00141
d D 1.3 2012/06/15 06:06:32 msokolov 3 2
c hopefully complete
e
s 00041/00000/00101
d D 1.2 2012/06/15 05:47:35 msokolov 2 1
c arithmetic operations explained
e
s 00101/00000/00000
d D 1.1 2012/06/15 01:13:55 msokolov 1 0
c date and time created 2012/06/15 01:13:55 by msokolov
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (IFCTF) %E%
.\"
.TH MJDTIME 3 "%Q%"
.UC 8
.SH NAME
D 4
struct mjdtime \- representation of time based on days
E 4
I 4
struct mjdtime, unix2mjdtime, mjd2unixtime
\- representation of time based on days
E 4
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
D 4
struct mjdtime {
	long	mjd;
	long	fract;
};
E 4
I 4
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <mjdtime.h>
E 4
.PP
.ft B
I 4
void unix2mjdtime(clock, mjdtime)
time_t *clock;
struct mjdtime *mjdtime;
.PP
.ft B
time_t mjd2unixtime(mjdtime)
struct mjdtime *mjdtime;
.PP
.ft B
E 4
normalize_mjdtime(t)
struct mjdtime t;
.PP
.ft B
mjdtime_gtr(t1, t2)
mjdtime_geq(t1, t2)
mjdtime_leq(t1, t2)
mjdtime_lss(t1, t2)
struct mjdtime t1, t2;
.fi
D 4
.SH DESCRIPTION
Contrary to the wishes of technocrats who see time as counts of
oscillations produced by their atomic frequency standards
and who have usurped the definition of a second in accord with their
worldview,
in the world of natural human beings on Earth the most basic
and fundamental unit of time is the day rather than the second.
The data structure defined here allows programmers to represent
points in time in a day-centric manner, rather than the second-centric
manner embodied in the original UNIX
.B time_t
definition.
E 4
I 4
.SH DATA TYPE
.I Struct mjdtime
is defined in
.RI < mjdtime.h >
as follows:
E 4
.PP
D 4
A
.I struct mjdtime
E 4
I 4
.nf
.RS
.DT
struct mjdtime {
	long	mjd;
	long	fract;
};
.RE
.fi
.PP
This representation of time is an alternative to the traditional UNIX
.BR time_t ,
and has the day, rather than the second, as its fundamental unit:
the \fImjd\fP member counts days, whereas the \fIfract\fP member
represents 1/86400th fractions of a day which the Sumerians called seconds.
(The new SI definition of the second that is disconnected from the day
is hereby explicitly rejected.)
.PP
This time representation structure is intended for the following
purposes:
.IP \(bu
Handling absolute dates and times that aren't constrained to the
relatively narrow
.B time_t
D 5
window of 1970-2106.
E 5
I 5
window of 1970\(em2106.
E 5
.IP \(bu
A convenient intermediate step in the conversion between
.B time_t
and human calendars: the new Quasijarus implementation of the
.IR ctime (3)
family of functions uses \fIunix2mjdtime\fP as the first step
in the conversion algorithm.
.IP \(bu
Representing civil time intervals (deltas between absolute times)
in days and fractions of a day rather than just seconds.
.SH ABSOLUTE TIMES
An \fImjdtime\fP structure
E 4
represents a point in time in the Earth human world
as a day identifier and a fraction of a day.
The day identifier is a Modified Julian Day number, defined
according to the standard scientific conventions of the astronomical
community, and the fraction of the day is given in 1/86400th units
D 4
which are hereby called seconds.
.ft B
4.3BSD-Quasijarus explicitly rejects the SI definition of the second
and instead uses the human civilisation's original definition
as 1/86400th of a day.
.ft
E 4
I 4
called seconds.
E 4
The
.I fract
member of the structure is supposed to lie between 0 and 86399,
inclusive, with 0 denoting astronomical midnight, the point at
which MJD numbers are defined to increment.
.PP
The origin of MJD numbers has no intrinsic meaning and is the result
of a chain of historical precedents.
MJD 0 corresponds to the Gregorian date of 1858-11-17,
and the UNIX epoch of 1970-01-01 is MJD 40587.
MJD numbers may be both positive and negative,
and the range provided by a signed 32-bit
.B long
extends over 5 million years in each direction,
which is deemed to be sufficient for the purposes of
calendrical manipulations related to the human civilisation.
D 4
.PP
Aside from the philosophical arguments,
.I struct mjdtime
makes for a convenient intermediate step in conversions
between
.B time_t
and human calendrical date & time notations.
It also allows calendrical code to work with the full
range of years of the human civilisation's known past and
projected future without being subject to the range limits of
.BR time_t :
as of this writing, native 64-bit integer support in
.IR cc (1)
is still far away, and a policy has been adopted
of not supporting negative
.B time_t
values ever.
In particular, a plan exists to extend the lifetime of 32-bit
systems past 2038 by making
.B time_t
an
.BR "unsigned long" ,
which would give us another 68 years.
.PP
The general time handling strategy in 4.3BSD-Quasijarus
is to use
.B time_t
when dealing with the present
.RI ( time (3))
and with times within the history of UNIX (file timestamps),
but use
.I struct mjdtime
instead when dealing with the greater human civilisation outside
of UNIX.
I 2
.SH "ARITHMETIC OPERATIONS"
.I Struct mjdtime
is intended to represent absolute times in the human sense,
rather than relative time intervals in the computer sense.
However, it is possible to obtain an interval in days and fractions
of a day between two time points represented as
.IR mjdtime s
E 4
I 4
.SH DELTAS
It is possible to obtain an interval in days and fractions
of a day between two time points represented as mjdtimes
E 4
by subtracting them as follows:
.PP
.nf
I 4
.RS
E 4
.ft B
struct mjdtime t1, t2, delta;

delta.mjd = t2.mjd - t1.mjd;
delta.fract = t2.fract - t1.fract;
normalize_mjdtime(delta);
.ft
I 4
.RE
E 4
.fi
.PP
The macro
.I normalize_mjdtime
forces the
.I fract
member into the proper range of 0 to 86399, inclusive, and increments
or decrements the
.I mjd
member accordingly.
Note that the structure is given to the macro
D 4
``by value''.
E 4
I 4
\*(lqby value\*(rq.
E 4
.PP
D 4
One should also use
.I normalize_mjdtime
after adding or subtracting fraction-of-a-day offsets to or from
the
.I fract
member, e.g., when implementing time zones.
Ditto when taking a delta computed as shown above and adding it
to some other
.IR mjdtime .
E 4
I 4
It is recommended that you always subtract the relative-past date
from the relative-future date, not the other way around:
a negative delta represented as an mjdtime is rather non-intuitive
and encourages programming errors.
.SH CONVERSIONS
.hw time-stamp
\fIUnix2mjdtime\fP converts a
.B time_t
timestamp into an mjdtime;
\fImjd2unixtime\fP performs the opposite conversion.
.PP
MJD and UNIX time epochs differ by 40587 days; this constant
offset is incorporated into the conversion functions.
These functions are intended for converting absolute times
between the two representation formats;
because of the offset, they cannot be used to convert a relative
time delta between seconds and days.
.PP
The current VAX assembly implementation of \fIunix2mjdtime\fP
reads a 32-bit value from the address passed as the first argument
and interprets it as unsigned;
this implementation of \fIunix2mjdtime\fP, used by the
.IR ctime (3)
family of functions, is what effectively defines the meaning
of 32-bit \fBtime_t\fP timestamps with the high bit set
D 5
as being in the 2038-2106 range, as opposed to 1901-1969.
E 5
I 5
as being in the 2038\(em2106 range, as opposed to 1901\(em1969.
E 5
Because every possible 32-bit \fBtime_t\fP timestamp is representable
as an mjdtime, the conversion cannot fail.
The result is always normalized, i.e., \fIfract\fP lies between
0 and 86399, inclusive.
.PP
The result of \fImjd2unixtime\fP should be treated as undefined
if the input \fImjd\fP is less than the UNIX epoch MJD of 40587
(the current Quasijarus \fBtime_t\fP can't represent proleptic dates),
or if the input \fIfract\fP is less than 0 or greater than 86399.
(The current VAX assembly implementation produces a correct
signed 64-bit result for every possible input except for \fImjd\fP values
at the negative extreme which overflow when the \(mi40587 offset
is applied, but what C sees as the unsigned 32-bit result
won't be anything useful.)
.PP
D 5
Every timestamp in the current \fBtime_t\fP range of 1970-2106
E 5
I 5
Every timestamp in the current \fBtime_t\fP range of 1970\(em2106
E 5
can be converted freely in both directions without error.
.SH NORMALIZATION
The already-mentioned \fInormalize_mjdtime\fP macro is guaranteed
to work correctly in the following cases:
.IP \(bu
After adding or subtracting an offset in seconds to or from
the \fIfract\fP member.
The absolute value of the offset must not exceed 86400.
If multiple such offsets need to be applied such that they may
exceed the limit in total, apply them one at a time, normalizing
after each.
.IP \(bu
After computing a delta between two normalized mjdtimes as shown earlier.
.IP \(bu
After taking a normalized mjdtime delta as computed above and adding
it to some other normalized mjdtime.
If three or more mjdtimes need to be added together, normalize
after each pairwise addition.
E 4
.SH "COMPARISON OPERATIONS"
D 3

E 3
I 3
D 4
Macros are provided that compare two normalized
.IR mjdtime s
E 4
I 4
Macros are provided that compare two normalized mjdtimes
E 4
in temporal order:
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'mjdtime_gtr(t1,t2))'u+.5i
Macro	True if
mjdtime_gtr(t1,t2)	t1 is greater than t2
mjdtime_geq(t1,t2)	t1 is greater than or equal to t2
mjdtime_leq(t1,t2)	t1 is less than or equal to t2
mjdtime_lss(t1,t2)	t1 is less than t2
.DT
.fi
I 5
.SH PORTABILITY
The signed 32-bit integer data type that is used for both MJD numbers
and fractions of a day is called \fBlong\fP on Classic UNIX systems.
However, the IFCTF Calendar and Time Systems Library will likely
also need to be ported to \*(lqmodern\*(rq perverted systems
which have redefined \fBlong\fP to mean 64 bits;
on the latter platforms the 32-bit \fBint\fP type will need to be
used instead.
.PP
If you are writing code that may potentially need to run on
everything from a PDP-11 (where a \fBlong\fP must be used) to a
\*(lqmodern\*(rq 64-bit system (where an \fBint\fP should be used),
use the \fIcalend_long\fP (\*(lqcalendrical long\*(rq) type:
it is defined to \fBlong\fP or \fBint\fP as appropriate
in both
.B <mjdtime.h>
and
.B <caldate.h>
header files.
E 5
.SH SEE ALSO
D 4
unix2mjdtime(3), mjd2unixtime(3)
E 4
I 4
unixtime(7)
E 4
.SH BUGS
D 4
Arithmetic and comparison operations on
.IR mjdtime s
E 4
I 4
Arithmetic and comparison operations on mjdtimes
E 4
are a little slower than on plain integers.
.PP
The use of MJD numbers and a structure like the present
should have been adopted much earlier in UNIX history.
Had this view of time been more mainstream, the outrageous
proposals to decouple
.B time_t
from time-of-day and make it count atomic oscillations instead
would have had less traction.
E 3
E 2
E 1
