h42523
s 00014/00020/00017
d D 6.3 87/04/10 14:57:41 bostic 5 4
c major rework; bug report 4.2BSD/lib/63
e
s 00015/00009/00022
d D 6.2 86/05/14 18:53:16 karels 4 3
c Englishisize, add error return for mkstemp
e
s 00010/00001/00021
d D 6.1 85/05/15 15:02:09 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00021
d D 5.1 85/05/15 15:02:02 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00022/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 15:01:56 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH MKTEMP 3 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH MKTEMP 3  "19 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH MKTEMP 3  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
mktemp \- make a unique file name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B char *mktemp(template)
.B char *template;
I 3
.sp
.B mkstemp(template)
.B char *template;
E 3
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 5
.I Mktemp
D 4
replaces
E 4
I 4
creates a unique file name, typically in a temporary filesystem,
by replacing
E 4
.I template
D 4
by a unique file name, and returns the
E 4
I 4
with a unique file name, and returns the
E 4
address of the template.
D 4
The template should look like a file name with six trailing
X's, which will be replaced with the
E 4
I 4
The template should contain a file name with six trailing
X's, which are replaced with the
E 4
current process id and a unique letter.
I 3
.I Mkstemp
D 4
makes the same replacement to the template but returns an open file descriptor
for the template file suitable for reading or writing.
E 4
I 4
makes the same replacement to the template
but returns a file descriptor
for the template file open for reading and writing.
E 4
.I Mkstemp
D 4
avoids the potential race between the creation of the unique
file name and its being opened for use.
E 4
I 4
avoids the race between testing whether the
file exists and opening it for use.
E 5
I 5
\fIMktemp\fP creates a unique file name and returns the address of
the template.  The template should contain a file name with trailing
\fIX\fP's, normally something like \fI/tmp/tempXXXXXX\fP.  The \fIX\fP's
are replaced by the current process number and/or a unique letter
combination.  \fIMkstemp\fP makes the same replacement to the template
but opens the template file and returns a file descriptor open for
reading and writing.  \fIMkstemp\fP avoids the race between testing
whether the file exists and opening it for use.  The number of file
name combinations \fImktemp\fP and \fImkstemp\fP will try depends on
the number of \fIX\fP's placed on the end of the template; six \fIX\fP's
will result in them trying roughly 26 ** 6 combinations.
E 5
E 4
E 3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 4
getpid(2)
E 4
I 4
D 5
getpid(2), open(2)
E 5
I 5
access(2), getpid(2), open(2)
E 5
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
D 5
.I Mkstemp
returns an open file descriptor upon success.
It returns -1 if no suitable file could be created.
E 5
I 5
\fIMktemp\fP returns NULL on failure, \fImkstemp\fP returns -1 if no
suitable file could be created.
E 5
E 4
E 1
