h10440
s 00005/00003/00038
d D 6.1 85/05/15 15:11:28 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00009/00024/00032
d D 5.1 85/05/15 15:11:19 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00056/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 15:11:13 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH NLIST 3 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH NLIST 3  "19 January 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH NLIST 3  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
nlist \- get entries from name list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <nlist.h>
I 2
.PP
E 2
.B nlist(filename, nl)
.B char *filename;
.B struct nlist nl[];
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Nlist
D 2
examines the name list in
the given executable output file
and selectively extracts a
list of values.
The name list consists of
an array of structures containing names,
E 2
I 2
examines the name list in the given executable output file
and selectively extracts a list of values.
The name list consists of an array of structures containing names,
E 2
types and values.
The list is terminated with a null name.
D 2
Each name is looked up in the name list of
the file.
E 2
I 2
Each name is looked up in the name list of the file.
E 2
If the name is found, the type and value of the
name are inserted in the next two fields.
If the name is not found, both entries are set to 0.
See
.IR a.out (5)
for the structure declaration.
.PP
D 2
This subroutine is useful for
examining the system name list kept in
the file
E 2
I 2
This subroutine is useful for examining the system name list kept in the file
E 2
.BR /vmunix .
D 2
In this way programs can obtain system addresses
that are up to date.
E 2
I 2
In this way programs can obtain system addresses that are up to date.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
a.out(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
D 2
All
type entries are set to 0 if the file cannot be found
E 2
I 2
D 3
All type entries are set to 0 if the file cannot be found
E 2
or if it is not a valid namelist.
E 3
I 3
If the file cannot be found or if it is not a valid namelist \-1 is returned;
otherwise, the number of unfound namelist entries is returned.
.PP
The type entry is set to 0 if the symbol is not found.
E 3
D 2
.SH BUGS
On other versions of UNIX you must include <a.out.h> rather than <nlist.h>;
this is unfortunate, but
.I <a.out.h>
can't be used on the
VAX because it contains a
.B union
which can't be initialized.
E 2
E 1
