h15954
s 00002/00002/00067
d D 6.1 85/05/15 15:43:07 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00020/00020/00049
d D 5.1 85/05/15 15:42:32 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00069/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 15:41:27 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH POPEN 3S
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH POPEN 3 "18 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH POPEN 3 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
popen, pclose \- initiate I/O to/from a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.SM
.B FILE
.B *popen(command, type)
.br
.B char *command, *type;
.PP
.B pclose(stream)
.br
.SM
.B FILE
.B *stream;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The arguments to 
.I popen
D 2
are pointers to null-terminated strings
containing respectively a shell command line and an I/O
mode, either "r" for reading or "w" for
writing.
It creates a pipe between
the calling process and
the command to be executed.
The value returned 
is a stream pointer that
E 2
I 2
are pointers to null-terminated strings containing respectively a
shell command line and an I/O mode, either "r" for reading or "w" for
writing.  It creates a pipe between the calling process and
the command to be executed.  The value returned is a stream pointer that
E 2
can be used (as appropriate) to write to the standard input
of the command or read from its standard output.
.PP
A stream opened by
.I popen
should be closed by
D 2
.I pclose,
E 2
I 2
.IR pclose ,
E 2
which waits for the associated process to terminate
and returns the exit status of the command.
.PP
D 2
Because open files are shared, a type "r" command
may be used as an input filter,
and a type "w" as an output filter.
E 2
I 2
Because open files are shared, a type "r" command may be used as an input
filter, and a type "w" as an output filter.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pipe(2),
D 2
fopen(3),
fclose(3),
E 2
I 2
fopen(3S),
fclose(3S),
E 2
system(3),
D 2
wait(2)
E 2
I 2
wait(2),
sh(1)
E 2
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Popen
D 2
returns a null pointer
if files or processes cannot be created, or the Shell 
E 2
I 2
returns a null pointer if files or processes cannot be created, or the shell 
E 2
cannot be accessed.
.PP
.I Pclose
returns \-1 if
.I stream
is not associated with a `popened' command.
.SH BUGS
Buffered reading before opening an input filter
may leave the standard input of that filter mispositioned.
Similar problems with an output filter may be
D 2
forestalled by careful buffer flushing, e.g. with
E 2
I 2
forestalled by careful buffer flushing, for instance, with
E 2
.I fflush,
see
D 3
.IR fclose (3).
E 3
I 3
.IR fclose (3S).
E 3
I 2
.LP
.I Popen
always calls
.IR sh ,
never calls
.IR csh .
E 2
E 1
