h57097
s 00001/00001/00048
d D 6.1 85/05/15 16:26:40 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00049/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 16:26:34 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH PSIGNAL 3 "25 February 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH PSIGNAL 3 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
psignal, sys_siglist \- system signal messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B psignal(sig, s)
.B unsigned sig;
.B char *s;
.PP
.B char *sys_siglist[];
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Psignal
produces a short message
on the standard error file
describing the indicated signal.
First the argument string
.I s
is printed, then a colon, then the name of the signal
and a new-line.
Most usefully, the argument string is the name
of the program which incurred the signal.
The signal number should be from among those found
in
.IR <signal.h> .
.PP
To simplify variant formatting
of signal names, the vector of message strings
.I sys_siglist
is provided;
the signal number
can be used as an index in this table to get the
signal name without the newline.
The define NSIG defined in
.RI < signal.h >
is the number of messages provided for in the table;
it should be checked because new
signals may be added to the system before
they are added to the table.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sigvec(2),
perror(3)
E 1
