h33474
s 00001/00001/00069
d D 6.2 88/05/19 18:14:10 bostic 4 3
c add regexp to SEE ALSO list
e
s 00001/00001/00069
d D 6.1 85/05/15 15:11:56 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00022/00020/00048
d D 5.1 85/05/15 15:11:46 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00068/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/15 15:11:36 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH REGEX 3 2/29/80
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH REGEX 3 "29 February 1980"
E 3
I 3
.TH REGEX 3 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC
.SH NAME
re_comp, re_exec \- regular expression handler
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.nf
E 2
.B char *re_comp(s)
I 2
.br
E 2
.B char *s;
.PP
.B re_exec(s)
I 2
.br
E 2
.B char *s;
D 2
.fi
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Re_comp
D 2
compiles a string into an internal form suitable for 
pattern matching. 
E 2
I 2
compiles a string into an internal form suitable for pattern matching. 
E 2
.I Re_exec 
checks the argument string against the last string passed to
.I re_comp.
.PP
.I Re_comp
returns 0 if the string
.I s
was compiled successfully; otherwise a string containing an
error message is returned. If 
.I re_comp
is passed 0 or a null string, it returns without changing the currently
compiled regular expression.
.PP
.I Re_exec
returns 1 if the string
.I s
matches the last compiled regular expression, 0 if the string
.I s
D 2
failed to match the last compiled regular expression, and
-1 if the compiled regular expression was invalid (indicating an
internal error).
E 2
I 2
failed to match the last compiled regular expression, and \-1 if the compiled
regular expression was invalid (indicating an internal error).
E 2
.PP
The strings passed to both
.I re_comp
and
.I re_exec
may have trailing or embedded newline characters; 
they are terminated by nulls.
D 2
The regular expressions recognized are described in the manual entry
for 
.I ed
(1), given the above difference.
E 2
I 2
The regular expressions recognized are described in the manual entry for 
.IR ed (1),
given the above difference.
E 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 2
ed(1), ex(1)
E 2
I 2
D 4
ed(1), ex(1), egrep(1), fgrep(1), grep(1)
E 4
I 4
ed(1), ex(1), egrep(1), fgrep(1), grep(1), regexp(3)
E 4
E 2
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I Re_exec
D 2
returns -1 for an internal error.
E 2
I 2
returns \-1 for an internal error.
E 2
.PP
.I Re_comp
returns one of the following strings if an error occurs:
D 2
"No previous regular expression",
"Regular expression too long",
"unmatched \e(",
"missing ]",
"too many \e(\e) pairs",
"unmatched \e)".
E 2
I 2
.PP
.nf
.in +0.5i
\fINo previous regular expression,
Regular expression too long,
unmatched \e(,
missing ],
too many \e(\e) pairs,
unmatched \e).\fP
.in -0.5i
.fi
E 2
E 1
