h21681
s 00022/00008/00162
d D 6.6 86/05/15 13:41:03 karels 7 6
c new stuff
e
s 00001/00001/00169
d D 6.5 85/11/29 17:44:50 mckusick 6 5
c lpd is no longer an example of a DAEMON facility
e
s 00006/00000/00164
d D 6.4 85/11/17 14:11:42 eric 5 4
c document LOG_LPR facility
e
s 00004/00002/00160
d D 6.3 85/10/13 15:23:25 eric 4 3
c old LOG_ODELAY is now the default; use LOG_NDELAY to get the old semantics
e
s 00074/00018/00088
d D 6.2 85/09/17 20:19:20 eric 3 2
c facilities in syslog
e
s 00057/00024/00049
d D 6.1 85/05/15 16:12:55 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00073/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/05/15 16:11:54 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.\"	@(#)syslog.3	1.2		11/14/82
.TH SYSLOG 3 "14 November 1982"
E 2
I 2
.TH SYSLOG 3 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
D 2
syslog, openlog, closelog \- control system log
E 2
I 2
syslog, openlog, closelog, setlogmask \- control system log
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <syslog.h>
.PP
D 2
.B "openlog(ident, logstat)
E 2
I 2
D 3
.B "openlog(ident, logopt, maskpri)
E 3
I 3
.B "openlog(ident, logopt, facility)
E 3
E 2
.br
.B "char *ident;
.PP
.B "syslog(priority, message, parameters ... )
.br
.B "char *message;
.PP
.B "closelog()
I 2
.PP
.B "setlogmask(maskpri)
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Syslog
D 2
arranges to write the
E 2
I 2
arranges to write
E 2
.I message
onto the system log maintained by
D 2
.IR syslog (8).
E 2
I 2
.IR syslogd (8).
E 2
The message is tagged with
.IR priority .
The message looks like a
.IR printf (3)
string except that
.B %m
is replaced by the current error message (collected from
.IR errno ).
A trailing newline is added if needed.
This message will be read by
D 2
.IR syslog (8)
and output to the system console or files as appropriate.
E 2
I 2
.IR syslogd (8)
and written to the system console, log files, or forwarded to
.I syslogd
on another host as appropriate.
I 3
.PP
Priorities are encoded as a
.I facility
and a
.IR level .
The facility describes the part of the system
generating the message.
The level is selected from an ordered list:
.IP LOG_EMERG \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
A panic condition.
This is normally broadcast to all users.
.IP LOG_ALERT \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
A condition that should be corrected immediately,
such as a corrupted system database.
.IP LOG_CRIT \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
Critical conditions,
e.g., hard device errors.
.IP LOG_ERR \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
Errors.
.IP LOG_WARNING \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
Warning messages.
.IP LOG_NOTICE \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
Conditions that are not error conditions,
but should possibly be handled specially.
.IP LOG_INFO \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
Informational messages.
.IP LOG_DEBUG \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
Messages that contain information
normally of use only when debugging a program.
.PP
E 3
If
.I syslog
cannot pass the message to
D 7
.I syslogd
D 3
and the message is priority LOG_FAIL or higher,
E 3
I 3
and the message is priority LOG_ERR or higher,
E 3
it attempts to write the message on
.IR /dev/console.
E 7
I 7
.IR syslogd ,
it will attempt to write the message on
.I /dev/console
if the LOG_CONS option is set (see below).
E 7
E 2
.PP
If special processing is needed,
.I openlog
can be called to initialize the log file.
D 2
Parameters are
E 2
I 2
The parameter
E 2
.I ident
D 2
which is prepended to every message, and
.I logstat
which is a bit field indicating special status; current values are:
.IP LOG_PID \w'LOG_PID'u+3
E 2
I 2
is a string that is prepended to every message.
.I Logopt
is a bit field indicating logging options.
Current values for
.I logopt
are:
D 3
.IP LOG_PID \w'LOG_ODELAY'u+3
E 3
I 3
.IP LOG_PID \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
E 3
E 2
log the process id with each message:
useful for identifying instantiations of daemons.
D 2
.LP
.I Openlog
returns zero on success.
If it cannot open the file
.I /dev/log,
it writes on
.I /dev/console
instead and returns \-1.
E 2
I 2
D 3
.IP LOG_CONS \w'LOG_ODELAY'u+3
Force writing error messages to the console if unable to send it to
E 3
I 3
.IP LOG_CONS \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
Force writing messages to the console if unable to send it to
E 3
.I syslogd.
This option is safe to use in daemon processes that have no controlling
terminal since
.I syslog
will fork before opening the console.
D 3
.IP LOG_ODELAY \w'LOG_ODELAY'u+3
E 3
I 3
D 4
.IP LOG_ODELAY \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
E 3
Delay opening the connection to
E 4
I 4
.IP LOG_NDELAY \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
D 7
Opening the connection to
E 7
I 7
Open the connection to
E 7
E 4
.I syslogd
I 4
immediately.
Normally the open is delayed
E 4
D 3
until the first error occurs. Useful for programs that need to manage the
E 3
I 3
until the first message is logged.
Useful for programs that need to manage the
E 3
order in which file descriptors are allocated.
I 7
.IP LOG_NOWAIT \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
Don't wait for children forked to log messages on the console.
This option should be used by processes that enable notification
of child termination via SIGCHLD, as
.I syslog
may otherwise block waiting for a child whose exit status has already
been collected.
E 7
E 2
.PP
I 2
The
D 3
.I maskpri
parameter is a mask for screening out low priority messages.
Calls to
.I syslog
with a priority whose corresponding bit in
.I maskpri
is not set are ignored.
The default allows all priorities to be logged.
E 3
I 3
.I facility
D 7
parameter is encodes a default facility to be assigned to all messages
E 7
I 7
parameter encodes a default facility to be assigned to all messages
E 7
that do not have an explicit facility encoded:
.IP LOG_KERN \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
Messages generated by the kernel.
These cannot be generated by any user processes.
.IP LOG_USER \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
Messages generated by random user processes.
D 7
This is the default if none is specified.
E 7
I 7
This is the default facility identifier if none is specified.
E 7
.IP LOG_MAIL \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
The mail system.
.IP LOG_DAEMON \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
System daemons, such as
D 6
.IR lpd (8),
E 6
I 6
.IR ftpd (8),
E 6
.IR routed (8),
etc.
.IP LOG_AUTH \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
The authorization system:
.IR login (1),
.IR su (1),
.IR getty (8),
etc.
I 5
.IP LOG_LPR \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
The line printer spooling system:
.IR lpr (1),
.IR lpc (8),
.IR lpd (8),
etc.
E 5
.IP LOG_LOCAL0 \w'LOG_WARNING'u+3
Reserved for local use.
Similarly for LOG_LOCAL1 through LOG_LOCAL7.
E 3
.PP
E 2
.I Closelog
can be used to close the log file.
I 2
.PP
.I Setlogmask
sets the log priority mask to
.I maskpri
and returns the previous mask.
D 3
Priorities and masks of 0 are ignored.
E 3
I 3
Calls to
.I syslog
D 7
with a priority lower than
E 7
I 7
with a priority not set in
E 7
.I maskpri
are rejected.
I 7
The mask for an individual priority
.I pri
is calculated by the macro LOG_MASK(\fIpri\fP);
the mask for all priorities up to and including
.I toppri
is given by the macro LOG_UPTO(\fItoppri\fP).
E 7
The default allows all priorities to be logged.
E 3
E 2
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
D 3
syslog(LOG_SALERT, "who: internal error 23");
E 3
I 3
syslog(LOG_ALERT, "who: internal error 23");
E 3

D 2
openlog("serverftp", LOG_PID);
E 2
I 2
D 3
openlog("serverftp", LOG_PID, 0);
E 3
I 3
openlog("ftpd", LOG_PID, LOG_DAEMON);
I 7
setlogmask(LOG_UPTO(LOG_ERR));
E 7
E 3
E 2
syslog(LOG_INFO, "Connection from host %d", CallingHost);
I 3

syslog(LOG_INFO|LOG_LOCAL2, "foobar error: %m");
E 3
.fi
D 2
.SH "SEE ALSO
syslog(8)
E 2
I 2
.SH "SEE ALSO"
I 3
logger(1),
E 3
syslogd(8)
E 2
E 1
