h58721
s 00002/00002/00054
d D 6.2 86/05/06 14:14:08 anne 4 3
c grammar, spelling, diction
e
s 00001/00001/00055
d D 6.1 85/05/20 17:09:35 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00012/00024/00044
d D 5.1 85/05/20 17:09:22 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00068/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 17:09:11 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH ARITHMETIC 6 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH ARITHMETIC 6  "1 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH ARITHMETIC 6  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
arithmetic \- provide drill in number facts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/arithmetic
[
.B +\-x/
] [ range ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Arithmetic
D 2
types out simple arithmetic problems,
and waits for an answer to be typed in.
If the answer is correct,
it types back \*(lqRight!\*(rq,
and a new problem.
If the answer is wrong,
it replies \*(lqWhat?\*(rq,
E 2
I 2
types out simple arithmetic problems, and waits for an answer to be typed in.
If the answer is correct, it types back \*(lqRight!\*(rq, and a new problem.
If the answer is wrong, it replies \*(lqWhat?\*(rq,
E 2
and waits for another answer.
D 4
Every twenty problems, it publishes
E 4
I 4
After every twenty problems, it publishes
E 4
D 2
statistics on correctness and the time required
to answer.
E 2
I 2
statistics on correctness and the time required to answer.
E 2
.PP
D 2
To quit the program,
type an interrupt (delete).
E 2
I 2
To quit the program, type an interrupt (delete).
E 2
.PP
D 2
The first optional argument determines the kind of problem
to be generated;
E 2
I 2
The first optional argument determines the kind of problem to be generated;
E 2
.B +\-x/
D 2
respectively cause
addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division
E 2
I 2
respectively cause addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division
E 2
problems to be generated.
One or more characters can be given;
if more than one is given, the different types of
problems will be mixed in random order; default is
D 4
.B +\-
E 4
I 4
.B +\-.
E 4
.PP
.I Range
is a decimal number;
all addends, subtrahends, differences, multiplicands, divisors,
and quotients will be less than or equal to the value of
.IR range .
Default
.I range
is 10.
.PP
At the start, all numbers less than or equal to
.I range
D 2
are equally likely
to appear.
E 2
I 2
are equally likely to appear.
E 2
If the respondent makes a mistake,
the numbers in the problem which was missed
become more likely to reappear.
.PP
As a matter of educational philosophy, the program will
D 2
not give correct answers,
since the learner should, in principle,
E 2
I 2
not give correct answers, since the learner should, in principle,
E 2
be able to calculate them.
Thus the program is intended to provide drill for
D 2
someone just past the first learning stage,
not to teach number facts
E 2
I 2
someone just past the first learning stage, not to teach number facts
E 2
.I de
.IR novo .
D 2
For almost all users,
the relevant statistic should be
E 2
I 2
For almost all users, the relevant statistic should be
E 2
time per problem, not percent correct.
E 1
