h50742
s 00010/00005/00179
d D 6.4 88/07/09 11:35:14 bostic 6 5
c install approved copyright notice
e
s 00008/00002/00176
d D 6.3 88/02/26 16:35:25 bostic 5 4
c add Berkeley specific copyright
e
s 00172/00005/00006
d D 6.2 88/02/02 12:07:37 mckusick 4 3
c update manual page to reflect the actual games being shipped
e
s 00001/00001/00010
d D 6.1 85/05/20 17:10:05 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00010
d D 5.1 85/05/20 17:09:55 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00011/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 17:09:45 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 4
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
D 5
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 5
I 5
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
D 6
.\" provided that this notice is preserved and that due credit is given
.\" to the University of California at Berkeley. The name of the University
.\" may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" software without specific prior written permission. This software
.\" is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
E 6
I 6
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
E 6
E 5
.\"
E 4
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH BACKGAMMON 6 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH BACKGAMMON 6  "1 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH BACKGAMMON 6  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
D 4
.AT 3
E 4
I 4
.UC 5
E 4
.SH NAME
D 4
backgammon \- the game
E 4
I 4
backgammon \- the game of backgammon
E 4
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 4
.B /usr/games/backgammon
E 4
I 4
.B backgammon
[ - ] [ n r w b pr pw pb t\c
.I term
s\c
.I file
]
E 4
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 4
This program does what you expect.
It will ask whether you need instructions.
E 4
I 4
This program lets you play backgammon against the computer
or against a "friend".
All commands only are one letter,
so you don't need to type a carriage return,
except at the end of a move.
The program is mostly self documenting,
so that a question mark (?) will usually get some help.
If you answer `y' when the program asks if you want the rules,
you will get text explaining the rules of the game,
some hints on strategy,
instruction on how to use the program,
and a tutorial consisting of a practice game against the computer.
A description of how to use the program can be
obtained by answering `y' when it asks if you want instructions.
.PP
The possible arguments for backgammon
(most are unnecessary but some are very convenient)
consist of:
.ne 11
.PP
.na
.TP 8
.B n
don't ask for rules or instructions
.TP 8
.B r
player is red (implies n)
.TP 8
.B w
player is white (implies n)
.TP 8
.B b
two players, red and white (implies n)
.TP 8
.B pr
print the board before red's turn
.TP 8
.B pw
print the board before white's turn
.TP 8
.B pb
print the board before both player's turn
.TP 8
.B t\fiterm
terminal is type
.IR term ,
uses /etc/termcap
.TP 8
.B s\fifile
recover previously saved game from
.IR file .
(This can also be done by executing the saved file,
i.e., typing its name in as a command)
.ad
.PP
Arguments may be optionally preceded by a `-'.
Several arguments may be concatenated together,
but not after `s' or `t' arguments,
since they can be followed by an arbitrary string.
Any unrecognized arguments are ignored.
An argument of a lone `-' gets a description of possible arguments.
.PP
If
.IR term
has capabilities for direct cursor movement (see
.IR termcap (5))
.IR backgammon
``fixes'' the board after each move,
so the board does not need to be reprinted,
unless the screen suffers some horrendous malady.
Also, any `p' option will be ignored.
(The `t' option is not necessary unless the terminal type does not match
the entry in the /etc/termcap data base.)
.SH QUICK\ REFERENCE
When the program prompts by typing only your color,
type a space or carriage return to roll, or
.ne 5
.PP
.na
.TP 8
.B d
to double
.TP 8
.B p
to print the board
.TP 8
.B q
to quit
.TP 8
.B s
to save the game for later
.PP
.i0
.ad
When the program prompts with 'Move:', type
.ne 4
.PP
.na
.TP 8
.B p
to print the board
.TP 8
.B q
to quit
.TP 8
.B s
to save the game
.ad
.i0
.PP
or a
.IR move ,
which is a sequence of
.ne 4
.PP
.na
.TP 8
.B s-f
move from
.BR s
to
.BR f
.TP 8
.B s/r
move one man on
.BR s
the roll
.BR r
.ad
.PP
separated by commas or spaces and ending with a newline.
Available abbreviations are
.ne 4
.PP
.na
.TP 10
.B s-f1-f2
means
.BR s-f1,f1-f2
.TP 10
.B s/r1r2
means
.BR s/r1,s/r2
.ad
.PP
Use `b' for bar and `h' for home,
or 0 or 25 as appropriate.
.SH AUTHOR
Alan Char
.SH FILES
.TP 25
/usr/games/teachgammon
\- rules and tutorial
.br
.TP 25
/etc/termcap
\- terminal capabilities
.SH BUGS
.PP
The program's strategy needs much work.
E 4
E 1
