h33715
s 00002/00001/00043
d D 6.2 86/05/06 14:14:06 anne 4 3
c grammar, spelling, diction
e
s 00001/00001/00043
d D 6.1 85/05/20 16:59:01 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00005/00009/00039
d D 5.1 85/05/20 16:58:45 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00048/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 16:58:35 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH BANNER 6
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH BANNER 6 "1 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH BANNER 6 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC
.SH NAME
banner \- print large banner on printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/banner
[
.BI \-w n
]
message ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Banner
prints a large, high quality banner on the standard output.
If the message is omitted, it prompts for and
D 2
reads one line of its standard input.
If
E 2
I 2
reads one line of its standard input.  If
E 2
.B \-w
D 2
is given, the output is scrunched down from a width
of 132 to
E 2
I 2
is given, the output is scrunched down from a width of 132 to
E 2
.I n ,
D 2
suitable for a narrow terminal.
If
E 2
I 2
suitable for a narrow terminal.  If
E 2
.I n
D 2
is omitted,
it defaults to 80.
E 2
I 2
is omitted, it defaults to 80.
E 2
.PP
The output should be printed on a hard-copy device, up to 132 columns wide,
D 4
with no breaks between the pages. The volume is enough that you want
E 4
I 4
with no breaks between the pages. The volume is great enough that you 
may want
E 4
a printer or a fast hardcopy terminal, but if you are patient, a
decwriter or other 300 baud terminal will do.
.SH BUGS
Several ASCII characters are not defined, notably <, >, [, ], \\,
^, _, {, }, |, and ~.  Also, the characters ", ', and & are funny
looking (but in a useful way.)
.PP
The
.B \-w
option is implemented by skipping some rows and columns.
The smaller it gets, the grainier the output.
Sometimes it runs letters together.
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Horton
E 1
