h25088
s 00001/00001/00048
d D 6.1 85/05/20 16:59:32 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00004/00007/00045
d D 5.1 85/05/20 16:59:22 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00052/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 16:59:12 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH BOGGLE 6
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH BOGGLE 6 "1 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH BOGGLE 6 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
boggle \- play the game of boggle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/boggle
[
.B +
] [
.B ++
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is intended for people wishing to sharpen their
skills at Boggle (TM Parker Bros.).
D 2
If you invoke the program with 4 arguments of 4
letters each,
E 2
I 2
If you invoke the program with 4 arguments of 4 letters each,
E 2
.RI ( e.g.
.RB \*(lq "boggle appl epie moth erhd" \*(rq)
D 2
the program forms the
obvious Boggle grid and lists all the words from
E 2
I 2
the program forms the obvious Boggle grid and lists all the words from
E 2
.B /usr/dict/words
D 2
found
therein. If you invoke the program without arguments, it will generate
E 2
I 2
found therein. If you invoke the program without arguments, it will generate
E 2
a board for you, let you enter words for 3 minutes, and then tell you
how well you did relative to
.BR /usr/dict/words .
.PP
The object of Boggle is to find, within 3
minutes, as many words as possible in a 4 by 4 grid of letters. Words
may be formed from any sequence of 3 or more adjacent letters in the
grid. The letters may join horizontally, vertically, or diagonally.
However, no position in the grid may be used more than once within any
one word. In competitive play amongst humans, each player is given
credit for those of his words which no other player has found.
.PP
In interactive play, enter your words separated by spaces, tabs,
or newlines. A bell will ring when there is 2:00, 1:00, 0:10, 0:02,
0:01, and 0:00 time left. You may complete any word started before the
expiration of time. You can surrender before time is up by hitting
\&'break'. While entering words, your erase character is only effective
within the current word and your line kill character is ignored.
.PP
Advanced players may wish to invoke the program with 1 or 2 +'s as
the first argument. The first + removes the restriction that positions
can only be used once in each word. The second + causes a position to
be considered adjacent to itself as well as its (up to) 8 neighbors.
E 1
