h60235
s 00001/00001/00024
d D 6.1 85/05/20 17:10:55 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00007/00012/00018
d D 5.1 85/05/20 17:10:46 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00030/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 17:10:38 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH CHESS 6 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH CHESS 6  "28 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH CHESS 6  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
chess \- the game of chess
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/chess
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Chess
is a computer program that plays class D chess.
Moves may be given either in standard (descriptive) notation
or in algebraic notation.
D 2
The symbol `+' is used to specify check;
`o-o' and `o-o-o' specify castling.
To play black, type `first';
to print the board, type an empty line.
E 2
I 2
The symbol `+' is used to specify check; `o-o' and `o-o-o' specify castling.
To play black, type `first'; to print the board, type an empty line.
E 2
.PP
D 2
Each move is echoed in the appropriate notation followed by
the program's reply.
E 2
I 2
Each move is echoed in the appropriate notation followed by the program's reply.
E 2
.SH FILES
D 2
/usr/lib/book		opening `book'
E 2
I 2
/usr/lib/chess		binary image to run in compatibility mode
E 2
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The most cryptic diagnostic is `eh?' which
means that the input was syntactically incorrect.
D 2
.SH WARNING
Over-use of this program
will cause it to go away.
E 2
.SH BUGS
D 2
Pawns may be promoted only to queens.
E 2
I 2
Pawns may be promoted only to queens.  The book of opening moves
has disappeared.
E 2
E 1
