h19316
s 00001/00001/00034
d D 6.1 85/05/20 17:01:06 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00034
d D 5.1 85/05/20 17:00:55 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00035/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 17:00:46 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH FISH 6
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH FISH 6 "1 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH FISH 6 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
fish \- play ``Go Fish''
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/fish
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fish
plays the game of \*(lqGo Fish\*(rq,
a childrens' card game.  The Object is to
accumulate `books' of 4 cards with the same face value.  The
players alternate turns; each turn begins with one player
selecting a card from his hand, and asking the other player for
all cards of that face value.  If the other player has one or
more cards of that face value in his hand, he gives them to the
first player, and the first player makes another request.
Eventually, the first player asks for a card which is not in
the second player's hand: he replies `GO FISH!' The first
player then draws a card from the `pool' of undealt cards.  If
this is the card he had last requested, he draws again.  When a
book is made, either through drawing or requesting, the cards
are laid down and no further action takes place with that face
value.
.PP
To play the computer, simply make guesses by typing a,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, j, q, or k when asked.  Hitting
return gives you information about the size of my hand and the
pool, and tells you about my books.  Saying `p' as a first
guess puts you into `pro' level; The default is pretty dumb.
E 1
