h24408
s 00001/00001/00053
d D 6.1 85/05/20 17:33:38 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00007/00011/00047
d D 5.1 85/05/20 17:33:13 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00058/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 17:32:50 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH FORTUNE 6
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH FORTUNE 6 "1 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH FORTUNE 6 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
fortune \- print a random, hopefully interesting, adage
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.B fortune
E 2
I 2
.B /usr/games/fortune
E 2
[
.B \-
] [
.B \-wslao
]
..[ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fortune
D 2
with no arguments
prints out a random adage. The flags mean:
.sp
E 2
I 2
with no arguments prints out a random adage. The flags mean:
.PP
E 2
.TP 5
.B \-w
Waits before termination
for an amount of time calculated from the number of characters in the message.
This is useful if it is executed as part of the logout procedure
D 2
to guarantee that the message can be read
before the screen is cleared.
E 2
I 2
to guarantee that the message can be read before the screen is cleared.
E 2
.TP 5
.B \-s
Short messages only.
.TP 5
.B \-l
Long messages only.
.TP
.B \-o
Choose from an alternate list of adages,
D 2
often used for portentially offensive ones.
E 2
I 2
often used for potentially offensive ones.
E 2
.TP
.B \-a
Choose from either list of adages.
.PP
..The user may specify a file of adages.
..This file must be created by strfile(6),
..and be given by the user as
...it file.
..Only one such file may be named,
..subsequent ones are ignored.
D 2
.sp
Mail suggestions for new fortunes to "fortune".
E 2
.SH FILES
D 2
/usr/lib/fortunes.dat
E 2
I 2
/usr/games/lib/fortunes.dat
E 2
.SH AUTHOR
Ken Arnold
...SH SEE\ ALSO
..strfile(6)
E 1
