h41000
s 00001/00001/00066
d D 6.1 85/05/20 17:11:49 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00014/00023/00053
d D 5.1 85/05/20 17:11:39 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00076/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 17:11:30 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH QUIZ 6 
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH QUIZ 6  "1 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH QUIZ 6  "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
quiz \- test your knowledge
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/quiz
[
.B \-i
file ]
[
.B \-t
] [ category1 category2 ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Quiz
D 2
gives associative
knowledge tests on various subjects.
E 2
I 2
gives associative knowledge tests on various subjects.
E 2
It asks items chosen from
.I category1
and expects answers from
.IR category2 .
If no categories are specified,
.I quiz
D 2
gives instructions
and lists the available categories.
E 2
I 2
gives instructions and lists the available categories.
E 2
.PP
.I Quiz
D 2
tells a correct answer whenever you type
a bare newline.
At the end of input, upon interrupt,
or when questions run out,
E 2
I 2
tells a correct answer whenever you type a bare newline.
At the end of input, upon interrupt, or when questions run out,
E 2
.I quiz
reports a score and terminates.
.PP
The
.B \-t
D 2
flag specifies `tutorial' mode,
where missed questions are repeated
E 2
I 2
flag specifies `tutorial' mode, where missed questions are repeated
E 2
later, and material is gradually introduced as you learn.
.PP
The
.B \-i
D 2
flag causes the named file to be substituted for the
default index file.
E 2
I 2
flag causes the named file to be substituted for the default index file.
E 2
The lines of these files have the  syntax:
D 2
.IP "" 4
E 2
I 2
.RS
E 2
.nf
.ta \w'alternate 'u
line	= category newline \(bv category `:' line
category	= alternate \(bv category `|' alternate
alternate	= empty \(bv alternate primary
primary	= character \(bv `[' category `]' \(bv option
option	= `{' category `}'
D 2
.PP
E 2
.fi
D 2
The first category on each
line of an index file names an information file.
E 2
I 2
.RE
.PP
The first category on each line of an index file names an information file.
E 2
The remaining categories specify the order and contents of
D 2
the data in each line of the
information file.
E 2
I 2
the data in each line of the information file.
E 2
Information files have the same syntax.
Backslash `\\' is used as with
.IR sh (1)
D 2
to quote syntactically
significant characters or to insert transparent
E 2
I 2
to quote syntactically significant characters or to insert transparent
E 2
newlines into a line.
When either a question or its answer is empty,
.I quiz
will refrain from asking it.
.SH FILES
/usr/games/quiz.k/*
.SH BUGS
D 2
The construct `a|ab' doesn't work in an information
file.
E 2
I 2
The construct `a\||\|ab' doesn't work in an information file.
E 2
Use `a{b}'.
E 1
