h23669
s 00002/00009/00084
d D 6.3 87/12/10 13:01:25 mckusick 6 4
c update for new version from Tim Stoehr
e
s 00003/00003/00090
d D 6.2 86/05/06 14:13:40 anne 4 3
c grammar, spelling, diction
e
s 00003/00002/00090
d D 6.1 85/05/20 17:02:38 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00042/00007/00050
d D 5.1 85/05/20 17:02:28 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00057/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 17:02:20 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH ROGUE 6 4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH ROGUE 6 "3 April 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH ROGUE 6 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
rogue \- exploring The Dungeons of Doom
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.B rogue
E 2
I 2
.B /usr/games/rogue
E 2
[
I 2
.B \-r
]
[
E 2
.I save_file
]
I 2
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-d
]
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Rogue
is a computer fantasy game with a new twist.  It is crt oriented and the
object of the game is to survive the attacks of various monsters and get
a lot of gold, rather than the puzzle solving orientation of most computer
fantasy games.
.PP
To get started you really only need to know two commands.  The command
.B ?
will give you a list of the available commands and the command
.B /
will identify the things you see on the screen.
.PP
D 4
To win the game (as opposed to merely playing to beat other people high
E 4
I 4
To win the game (as opposed to merely playing to beat other people's high
E 4
scores) you must locate the Amulet of Yendor which is somewhere below
the 20th level of the dungeon and get it out.  Nobody has achieved this
yet and if somebody does, they will probably go down in history as a hero
D 4
among heros.
E 4
I 4
among heroes.
E 4
.PP
When the game ends, either by your death, when you quit, or if you (by
some miracle) manage to win,
.I rogue
D 4
will give you alist of the top-ten scorers.  The scoring is based entirely
E 4
I 4
will give you a list of the top-ten scorers.  The scoring is based entirely
E 4
upon how much gold you get.  There is a 10% penalty for getting yourself
killed.
.PP
I 2
If
.I save_file
is specified,
rogue will be restored from the specified saved game file.
D 6
If the
.B \-r
option is used, the save game file is presumed to be the default.
E 6
.PP
The
.B \-s
option will print out the list of scores.
.PP
D 6
The
.B \-d
option will kill you and try to add you to the score file.
.PP
E 6
E 2
For more detailed directions, read the document
.I "A Guide to the Dungeons of Doom."
I 2
.SH AUTHORS
I 6
Timothy Stoehr,
E 6
Michael C. Toy,
Kenneth C. R. C. Arnold,
Glenn Wichman
E 2
.SH FILES
.DT
I 2
.ta \w'/usr/games/lib/rogue_roll\ \ \ 'u
E 2
/usr/games/lib/rogue_roll	Score file
.br
D 2
~/rogue.sav	Default save file
E 2
I 2
\fB~\fP/rogue.save	Default save file
E 2
.SH SEE ALSO
D 2
Michael C. Toy,
E 2
I 2
Michael C. Toy
and
Kenneth C. R. C. Arnold,
E 2
.I "A guide to the Dungeons of Doom"
.SH BUGS
.PP
D 2
Probably infinite.  Currently known bugs are: Sometimes you are still hungry
even after you eat food and sometimes you get a monster on the screen in
reverse video which may or may not cause a core dump.
E 2
I 2
D 3
Probably infinite.
E 3
I 3
D 6
Probably infinite
(although countably infinite).
E 6
I 6
Probably infinite, although none are known.
E 6
E 3
However,
that Ice Monsters sometimes transfix you permanently is
.I not
a bug.
It's a feature.
E 2
E 1
