h57041
s 00001/00001/00062
d D 6.1 85/05/20 17:03:31 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00011/00024/00052
d D 5.1 85/05/20 17:03:20 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00076/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 17:03:11 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH TREK 6
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH TREK 6 "1 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH TREK 6 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
trek \- trekkie game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/trek
[ [
.B \-a
] file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Trek
D 2
is a game of space glory and war.
Below is a summary of commands.
For complete documentation,
see
E 2
I 2
is a game of space glory and war.  Below is a summary of commands.
For complete documentation, see
E 2
.IR Trek
by Eric Allman.
.PP
D 2
If a filename is given,
a log of the game is written onto that file.
E 2
I 2
If a filename is given, a log of the game is written onto that file.
E 2
If the
.B \-a
D 2
flag is given before the filename,
that file is appended to,
not truncated.
E 2
I 2
flag is given before the filename, that file is appended to, not truncated.
E 2
.PP
D 2
The game will ask you what length game
you would like.
E 2
I 2
The game will ask you what length game you would like.
E 2
Valid responses are \*(lqshort\*(rq, \*(lqmedium\*(rq, and \*(lqlong\*(rq.
D 2
You may also type \*(lqrestart\*(rq,
which restarts a previously saved game.
You will then be prompted for the skill,
to which you must respond
E 2
I 2
You may also type \*(lqrestart\*(rq, which restarts a previously saved game.
You will then be prompted for the skill, to which you must respond
E 2
\*(lqnovice\*(rq, \*(lqfair\*(rq, \*(lqgood\*(rq, \*(lqexpert\*(rq,
\*(lqcommadore\*(rq, or \*(lqimpossible\*(rq.
D 2
You should normally start out with a novice
and work up.
E 2
I 2
You should normally start out with a novice and work up.
E 2
.PP
D 2
In general,
throughout the game,
if you forget what is appropriate
the game will tell you what it expects
if you just type in
a question mark.
E 2
I 2
In general, throughout the game, if you forget what is appropriate
the game will tell you what it expects if you just type in a question mark.
E 2
.SH AUTHOR
Eric Allman
.SH "SEE ALSO"
/usr/doc/trek
.SH "COMMAND SUMMARY"
.ie t .ds f \fB
.el .ds f \fI
.ta 3i
.nf
\*fabandon\fR	\*fca\fRpture
\*fcl\fRoak \*fu\fRp/\*fd\fRown
\*fc\fRomputer request; ...	\*fda\fRmages
\*fdestruct\fR	\*fdo\fRck
\*fhelp\fR	\*fi\fRmpulse course distance
\*fl\fRrscan	\*fm\fRove course distance
\*fp\fRhasers \*fa\fRutomatic amount
\*fp\fRhasers \*fm\fRanual amt1 course1 spread1 ...
\*ft\fRorpedo course [\*fy\fRes] angle/\*fn\fRo
\*fram\fR course distance	\*fr\fRest time
\*fshell\fR	\*fsh\fRields \*fu\fRp/\*fd\fRown
\*fs\fRrscan [\*fy\fRes/\*fn\fRo]
\*fst\fRatus	\*fterminate\fR \*fy\fRes/\*fn\fRo
\*fu\fRndock	\*fv\fRisual course
\*fw\fRarp warp_factor
.fi
.DT
E 1
