h17563
s 00001/00001/00038
d D 6.1 85/05/20 19:55:38 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00003/00003/00036
d D 5.1 85/05/20 19:55:25 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00039/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 19:55:09 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH WORM 6 4/2/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH WORM 6 "2 April 1981"
E 3
I 3
.TH WORM 6 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
worm \- play the growing worm game
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.B worm
E 2
I 2
.B /usr/games/worm
E 2
[
.I size
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
In
.I worm,
you are a little worm, your body is the "o"'s on the screen
and your head is the "@".  You move with the hjkl keys (as in the game
snake).  If you don't press any keys, you continue in the direction you
last moved.  The upper case HJKL keys move you as if you had pressed
D 2
several (9 for HL and 5 for JK) of the corrosponding lower case key
E 2
I 2
several (9 for HL and 5 for JK) of the corresponding lower case key
E 2
(unless you run into a digit, then it stops).
.PP
On the screen you will see a digit, if your worm eats the digit is will
grow longer, the actual amount longer depends on which digit it was
that you ate.  The object of the game is to see how long you can make
the worm grow.
.PP
The game ends when the worm runs into either the sides of the screen,
or itself.  The current score (how much the worm has grown) is kept in
the upper left corner of the screen.
.PP
The optional argument, if present, is the initial length of the worm.
.SH BUGS
If the initial length of the worm is set to less than one or more
than 75, various strange things happen.
E 1
