h28429
s 00001/00001/00033
d D 6.1 85/05/20 17:03:57 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00005/00012/00029
d D 5.1 85/05/20 17:03:48 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00041/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/05/20 17:03:39 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH ZORK 6
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH ZORK 6 "1 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH ZORK 6 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
zork \- the game of dungeon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/games/zork
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dungeon
is a computer fantasy simulation based on Adventure and on
D 2
Dungeons & Dragons, originally written by Lebling, Blank,
and Anderson of MIT.
In it you explore a dungeon made up of
various rooms, caves, rivers, and so on.
E 2
I 2
Dungeons & Dragons, originally written by Lebling, Blank, and Anderson of MIT.
In it you explore a dungeon made up of various rooms, caves, rivers, and so on.
E 2
The object of the game is to collect as much treasure as possible
and stow it safely in the trophy case (and, of course, to stay alive.)
.PP
Figuring out the rules is part of the game, but if you are stuck,
D 2
you should start off with \*(lqopen mailbox\*(rq, \*(lqtake leaflet\*(rq, and then
\*(lqread leaflet\*(rq.
E 2
I 2
you should start off with \*(lqopen mailbox\*(rq, \*(lqtake leaflet\*(rq,
and then \*(lqread leaflet\*(rq.
E 2
Additional useful commands that are not documented include:
.PP
quit	(to end the game)
.PP
!cmd	(the usual shell escape convention)
.PP
>	(to save a game)
.PP
<	(to restore a game)
.SH FILES
/usr/games/lib/d*
D 2
.SH BUGS
We don't have the source, only a pdp-11 binary that has been severely
munged to get it to work on V7 Unix.
(The original binary was for RSX-11, which was patched for V6,
and then patched for V7.)
E 2
E 1
