.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	@(#)cat.1	6.4 (Berkeley) 1/2/04
.\"
.TH CAT 1 "January 2, 2004"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
cat \- catenate and print
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cat
[
.B \-78benstuv
]
file ...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cat
reads each
.I file
in sequence and displays it on the standard output.  Thus
.PP
.ti+15n
cat file
.PP
displays the file on the standard output, and
.PP
.ti+15n
cat file1 file2 >file3
.PP
concatenates the first two files and places the result on the third.
.PP
If no input file is given, or if the argument `\-' is encountered,
.I cat
reads from the standard input file.
Output is buffered in the block size recommended by \fIstat\fP(2)
unless the standard output is a terminal,
when it is line buffered.  The
.B \-u
option makes the output completely unbuffered.
.PP
The
.B \-n
option displays the output lines preceded by lines numbers, numbered
sequentially from 1.  Specifying the 
.B \-b
option with the
.B \-n
option omits the line numbers from blank lines.
.PP
The
.B \-s
option crushes out multiple adjacent empty lines so that the
output is displayed single spaced.
.PP
The
.B \-v
option displays non-printing characters so that they are visible.
Control characters print like ^X for control-x; the delete character
(octal 0177) prints as ^?.
Non-ascii characters (with the high bit set) are printed as M-
(for meta) followed by the character of the low 7 bits.  A
.B \-e
option may be given with the
.B \-v
option, which displays a `$' character at the end of each line.
Specifying the 
.B \-t
option with the
.B \-v
option displays tab characters as ^I.
.PP
The
.B \-7
option converts the catted character stream from KOI-8 to KOI-7
by clearing the high bit of every character and inserting SO and SI
(octal 016 and 017) control characters as necessary so that Russian letters
in the input (octal 0300 through 0377 inclusive) can be distinguished
from their Latin (ASCII) counterparts.
The
.B \-8
option performs the opposite conversion by setting the high bit of
characters between 0100 and 0177 octal (inclusive) that are preceded by SO
(016 octal).
While it will seem counterintuitive, the
.B \-7
transformation includes the
.B \-8
transformation as its first step.
This is done so that if the input files contain a mixture of KOI-7 and KOI-8,
the output of
.I cat
.B \-7
will be in KOI-7 with the minimum necessary number of SO and SI control
characters.
The
.B \-7
and
.B \-8
options are incompatible with
.BR \-v .
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cp(1), ex(1), more(1), pr(1), tail(1), koi(7)
.SH BUGS
Beware of `cat a b >a' and `cat a b >b', which destroy
the input files before reading them.
.PP
.B \-7
option does not convert C1 high control characters to their equivalent
7-bit two-character escape sequences by ISO rules, instead
it merely clears the high bit.
