.\"	@(#)eqn.1	6.3 (Berkeley) 10/20/04
.\"
.TH EQN 1 "October 20, 2004"
.AT 3
.SH NAME
eqn, neqn, pseqn, checkeq \- typeset mathematics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B eqn
[
.BR \-d xy
] [
.BR \-p n
] [
.BR \-s n
] [
.BR \-f n
] 
[ file ] ...
.br
.B checkeq
[ file ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Eqn
is a
.IR troff (1)
preprocessor
for typesetting mathematics
on a Graphic Systems phototypesetter,
.I neqn
on terminals,
.I pseqn
for
.IR pstroff (1).
Usage is almost always
.PP
	eqn file ... | troff
.br
	neqn file ... | nroff
.br
	pseqn file ... | pstroff
.PP
If no files are specified, 
these programs
read from the standard input.
A line beginning with `.EQ' marks the start of an equation;
the end of an equation
is marked by a line beginning with `.EN'.
Neither of these lines is altered,
so they may be defined in macro packages
to get
centering, numbering, etc.
It is also possible to set two characters as `delimiters';
subsequent text between delimiters is also treated as
.ul
eqn
input.
Delimiters may be set to characters
.I x
and
.I y
with the command-line argument
.BI \-d xy
or (more commonly) with
`delim
.IR xy '
between .EQ and .EN.
The left and right delimiters may be identical.
Delimiters are turned off by `delim off'.
All text that is neither between delimiters nor between .EQ and .EN
is passed through untouched.
.PP
The program
.I checkeq
reports missing or unbalanced delimiters and .EQ/.EN pairs.
.PP
The equation input format is documented in detail in
.ul
Typesetting Mathematics\(emUser's Guide
by B. W. Kernighan and L. L. Cherry.
.PP
Sizes and font can be changed with
.B size
.I n
or
.B size
.BI \(+- n,
.BR roman ,
.BR italic ,
.BR bold ,
and
.BR font
.I n.
Size and fonts can be changed globally in a document by
.B gsize
.I n
and
.B gfont
.IR n ,
or by the command-line arguments
.BI \-s n
and
.BI \-f n.
.PP
Normally subscripts and superscripts are reduced by
3 point sizes from the previous size;
this may be changed by the command-line argument
.BI \-p n.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
troff(1), tbl(1), ms(7), eqnchar(7)
.br
B. W. Kernighan and L. L. Cherry,
.ul
Typesetting Mathematics\(emUser's Guide
.br
J. F. Ossanna,
.ul
NROFF/TROFF User's Manual
