.\"	@(#)prt.1	6.2 (Berkeley) 11/9/03
.tr ~
.tr $%
.if t .tr #\fB\(em\fP
.if n .tr #-
.if n .ds D " -- 
.if t .ds D _
.tr @|
.nr f 0
.bd S B 3
.de SP
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\(em\\$1\fR\\c
.if n .ul 0
\\$2\\$3
..
.de SF
.if n .ul
\%[\fB\(em\\$1\fR]
.if n .ul 0
..
.de ZZ
.hc ^
\fB^...\fR
.hc
..
.de AR
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\(em\\$1\\fR
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de C1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\\$1
\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\(em\\$1\fR[\fI\\$2\fR]
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de A2
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 15
\fB\(em\\$1\fI\\$2\fR
\\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7 \\$8 \\$9
.nr f 1
..
.de FI
.PP
.TP 30
\\$1
\\$2
.i0
..
.ds F)  \fB\s-1FILES\s+1\fR
.ds W)  \fB\s-1WARNINGS\s+1\fR
.ds X)  \fB\s-1EXAMPLES\s+1\fR
.ds T)  \fB\s-1TABLE\s+1\fR
.ds K)  \fB\s-1DATA KEYWORDS\s+1\fR
.ds D)  \fB\s-1DDDDD\s+1\fR
.ds M)  \fB\s-1MR\s+1\fR
.ds R)  \fB\s-1RELEASE NUMBER\s+1\fR
.ds S)  \fB\s-1SCCS\s+1\fR
.ds I)  \fB\s-1SID\s+1\fR
.de F1
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 13
.TP 7
\fB\\$1\fI\\$2\fR
\\$3
.nr f 1
..
.de F2
.if \\nf \{ \
.    RE
.    nr f 0 \}
.PP
.RS 13
.TP 7
\fB\\$1[\fI\\$2\fR]
\\$3
.nr f 1
..
.if n .ds )Q '
.if n .ds )G `
.if t .ds )Q \\(aa
.if t .ds )G \\(ga
.if t .ds )S \\|
.TH PRT 1 "November 9, 2003"
.SH NAME
prt \(em print \s-1SCCS\s0 file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B prt
.SF d
.SF s
.SF a
.SF i
.SF u
.SF f
.SF t
.SF b
.SF e
.SP y [\s-1SID\s0]]
.br
.SP c [cutoff]]
.SP r [rev-cutoff]]
.SF n
file
.ZZ
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.RE
.I Prt
prints part or all of an \*(S) file in a useful format.
If a directory is named,
.I prt
behaves as though each file in the directory were
specified as a named file,
except that non-\*(S) files
(last component of the pathname does not begin with \fBs.\fR)
and unreadable files
are silently ignored.
If a name of \fB\(em\fR is given, the standard input is read;
each line of the standard input is taken to be the name of an \*(S) file
to be processed.
Again, non-\*(S) files and unreadable files are silently ignored.
.PP
The keyletter arguments are as follows.
Each is explained as though only one named file is to be processed,
but the effects of any keyletter argument
apply independently to
each named file.
.AR d This
keyletter normally causes the printing of delta table entries of the
\s-1\fBD\s+1\fR type.
.AR s Causes
only the first line of the delta table entries to be printed; that is,
only up to the statistics.
This keyletter is effective only if the
.B d
keyletter is also specified (or assumed).
.AR a Causes
those types of deltas normally not printed by the
.B d
keyletter to be printed. These are types \s-1\fBR\s+1\fR (removed).
This keyletter is effective only if the
.B d
keyletter is also specified (or assumed).
.AR i Causes
the printing of the serial numbers of those deltas included,
excluded, and ignored.
This keyletter is effective only if the
.B d
keyletter is also specified (or assumed).
.RE
.PP
The following format is used to print those
portions of the \*(S) file as specified by the above keyletters.
The printing of each delta table entry
is
preceded
by a newline character.
.PP
.vs 9.5p
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
a)
Type of delta (\s-1\fBD\fR\s+1 or \s-1\fBR\fR\s+1).
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
b)
Space.
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
c)
\*(S) identification string (\*(I)).
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
d)
Tab.
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
e)
Date and time of creation.
.br
(in the form \s-1YY/MM/DD HH:MM:SS\s+1)
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
f)
Tab.
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
g)
Creator.
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
h)
Tab.
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
i)
Serial number.
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
j)
Tab.
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
k)
Predecessor delta's serial number.
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
1)
Tab.
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
m)
Statistics.
.br
(in the form inserted/deleted/unchanged)
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
n)
Newline.
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
o)
``Included:\c
.ul
tab'',
.ul 0
followed by \*(I)'s of deltas included, followed by
newline (only if there were any such deltas and if
.B i
keyletter was supplied).
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
p)
``Excluded:\c
.ul
tab'',
.ul 0
followed by \*(I)'s of deltas excluded, followed by
newline (see note above).
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
q)
``Ignored:\c
.ul
tab'',
.ul 0
followed by \*(I)'s of deltas ignored, followed by
newline (see note above).
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
r)
``\*(M)s:\c
.ul
tab'',
.ul 0
followed by \*(M) numbers related to the delta, followed by
newline (only if any \*(M) numbers were supplied).
.RE 
.RS 10
.TP 4
s)
Lines of comments (delta commentary), followed by newline
(if any were supplied).
.vs 12p
.AR u Causes
the printing of the login-names and/or numerical group IDs of those users
allowed to make deltas.
.AR f Causes
the printing of the flags of the named file.
.AR t Causes
the printing of the descriptive text
contained in the file.
.AR b Causes
the printing of the body of the \*(S) file.
.AR e This
keyletter implies the
.B d\c
,
.B i\c
,
.B u\c
,
.B f\c
,
and
.B t
keyletters and is provided for convenience.
.A1 y \s-1SID\s0 This
keyletter will cause the printing of the delta table entries to stop
when the delta just printed has the specified \*(I).
If no delta in the table has the specified \*(I), the entire table is
printed.
If no \*(I) is specified, the first delta in the delta table is printed.
This keyletter will cause the entire delta table entry for each delta to be
printed as a single line (the newlines in the normal multi-line format
of the
.B d
keyletter are replaced by blanks)
preceded by the name of the \*(S) file being processed, followed by a \fB:,\fR
followed by a tab.
This keyletter
is effective only if the
.B d
keyletter is also specified (or assumed).
.A1 c cutoff This
keyletter will cause the printing of the delta table entries
to stop if the delta about to be printed is older than the
specified cutoff date-time (see
.IR get\^ (1)
for the format of date-time).
If no date-time is supplied, the
epoch 0000 \fB\s-1GMT\s+1\fR Jan. 1, 1970 is used.
As with the
.B y
keyletter, this keyletter will cause the entire delta table
entry to be printed as a single line and
to be preceded by the name of the \*(S) file being processed,
followed by a \fB:,\fR followed by a tab.
This keyletter is effective only if the
.B d
keyletter is also specified (or assumed).
.A1 r rev-cutoff This
keyletter will cause the printing of the delta table entries
to begin when the delta about to be printed is older than or equal to the
specified cutoff date-time (see
.IR get\^ (1)
for the format of date-time).
If no date-time is supplied, the
epoch 0000 \fB\s-1GMT\s+1\fR Jan. 1, 1970 is used.
(In this case, nothing will be printed).
As with the
.B y
keyletter, this keyletter will cause the entire delta table
entry to be printed as a single line and
to be preceded by the name of the \*(S) file being processed,
followed by a \fB:\fR, followed by a tab.
This keyletter is effective only if the
.B d
keyletter is also specified (or assumed).
.AR n This
keyletter causes the delta table to be printed in a slightly different format
from that described above.
The same fields are printed in the same order, but instead of tabs they are
separated by a judiciously chosen number of spaces in order to display nicely
on the terminal.
This keyletter is effective only if the
.B d
keyletter is also specified (or assumed).
.RE
.PP
If any keyletter but
.B y\c
,
.B c\c
,
or
.B r
is supplied, the name of the file being processed (preceded by one newline
and followed by two newlines) is printed before its contents.
.PP
If none of the
.B u
,
.B f
,
.B t
,
or
.B b
keyletters is supplied, the
.B d
keyletter is assumed.
.PP
Note that the
.B s
and
.B i
keyletters, and the
.B c
and
.B r
keyletters are mutually exclusive;
therefore, they may not be specified together on the same
.I prt
command.
.PP
The form of the delta table
as produced by the
.B y\c
,
.B c\c
,
and
.B r
keyletters makes it easy to sort multiple delta tables by time order.
For example,
the following will print the delta tables of all \*(S) files
in directory
.I sccs
in
.IR rev\^ erse
chronological order:
.PP
.ti +4
.if t prt  #c  sccs  @  grep  \fB.\fR  @  sort  \*()Q#rt\fItab\fP\*()Q  +2  #3
.if n prt  -c  sccs  @  grep  .  @  sort  \*()Q-rt<tab>\*()Q  +2  #3
.br
.PP
When both the
.B y
and
.B c
or the
.B y
and
.B r
keyletters are supplied,
.I prt
will stop printing when the first of the two conditions is met.
.PP
The
.IR reform\^ (1)
command can be used to truncate long lines.
.PP
See
.IR admin\^ (1),
.IR sccsfile\^ (5),
and
.I "Source Code Control System User's Guide"
for more information about the meaning of the output of
.I prt.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
admin(1),
get(1),
delta(1),
what(1),
sccshelp(1),
sccsfile(5)
.br
.I "Source Code Control System User's Guide"
by L. E. Bonanni and C. A. Salemi.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use
.IR sccshelp\^ (1)
for explanations.
.tr ~~
.tr @@
