.\"	@(#)pstroff.1	6.2 (Berkeley) 10/30/04
.\"
.TH PSTROFF 1 "October 30, 2004"
.UC 8
.SH NAME
pstroff \- format text into PostScript
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pstroff
[ option ] ...
[ file ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pstroff
is a variant of
.IR troff (1)
that
formats text in the named
.I files
into the world standard PostScript page description language.
Its capabilities are described in the
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual.
.PP
If no
.I file
argument is present, the standard input is read.
An argument consisting of a single minus
.RB ( \- )
is taken to be a file name corresponding to the standard input.
The options, which may appear in any order so long as they appear
before the files, are:
.TP "\w'\f3\-m\f1name 'u"
.BI \-o list
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in the comma-separated
.I list
of numbers and ranges.
A range
.IB N \- M
means pages
.I N
through
.IR M ;
an initial
.I \-N
means from the beginning to page
.IR N ;
and a final
.IR N \-
means from
.I N
to the end.
.TP
.BI \-n N
Number first generated page
.IR N .
.TP
.BI \-m name
Prepend the macro file
.BI /usr/lib/tmac/tmac. name
to the input
.IR files .
.TP
.BI \-r aN
Set register
.I a
(one-character) to
.IR N .
.TP
.B \-i
Read standard input after the input files are exhausted.
.TP
.B \-q
Invoke the simultaneous input-output mode of the
.B rd
request.
.TP
.B \-t
Does nothing, exists only for compatibility with
.IR troff (1).
PostScript output is always sent to the standard output in this version.
.TP
.BI \-f fontlist
Declares the list of fonts to be used in the document.
See the
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual
for details.
.TP
.BI \-F fontdir
Look for font description files in
.I fontdir
instead of the default directory /usr/lib/pstroff.
This option is useful for non-privileged users who want to use their
own fonts but do not have write permission to /usr/lib/pstroff.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not emit TroffEncoding.ps in the document prolog.
The Roman fonts used with
.I pstroff
use the \%\fBTroffEncoding\fP
encoding vector, which was specifically designed for
.IR pstroff ,
and its definition normally needs to be emitted in the document prolog
since it is not a standard resource.
You can omit it with the
.B \-N
option if the \%\fBTroffEncoding\fP
vector is already present in the printer's VM
or if the entire document uses fonts other than the standard Roman fonts
(e.g., Cyrillic fonts) and the standard Roman fonts are excluded from
the font list declared with
.BR \-f .
.TP
.B \-e
8-bit characters are OK in strings.
The full character set is always available, but by default
without this option 8-bit characters are emitted as octal escapes in strings,
so the PostScript output meets the Clean7Bit spec.
This enhances portability at little cost when there are only a few
8-bit characters in mostly 7-bit text.
It is very inefficient for 8-bit text, however, and
.B \-e
or
.B \-h
should be used for the latter.
Note that characters falling on code points normally used for control
characters, both C0 and C1, are always output as octal escapes.
.TP
.B \-h
Emit all strings in hex instead of plain text.
This allows the entire character set to be used while keeping the output
to the Clean7Bit spec at the cost of 2x expansion.
It is the most efficient option, however, when 8-bit text must be formatted
into Clean7Bit PostScript or when the document uses a lot of characters
falling on C0 and C1 code points that would always requires octal escapes.
.SH FILES
.ta 5n +\w'TroffEncoding.ps  'u
/tmp/ta*	temporary file
.br
/usr/lib/tmac/tmac.*	standard macro files
.br
/usr/lib/pstroff/	directory containing:
.br
	fw*	font width tables
.br
	fs*	font setup files
.br
	TroffEncoding.ps	encoding vector definition
.br
	TroffProcset.ps	procset code
.SH "SEE ALSO"
J. F. Ossanna,
.I Nroff/Troff user's manual
.br
B. W. Kernighan,
.I
A TROFF Tutorial
.br
troff(1), eqn(1), tbl(1), ms(7), me(7), man(7)
