h09272
s 00002/00002/00113
d D 6.5 86/05/28 14:04:40 mckusick 7 6
c now uses symbolic links
e
s 00009/00004/00106
d D 6.4 86/01/13 17:40:37 donn 6 5
c Documented the new 'manpath' feature.  Standardized quotation marks...
e
s 00001/00001/00109
d D 6.3 85/08/13 17:55:19 mckusick 5 4
c /usr/lib/whatis moves to /usr/man/whatis
e
s 00033/00001/00077
d D 6.2 85/08/07 20:11:19 mckusick 4 3
c use links for manuals with only .so;
c describe how to eliminate man? with rdist (from ks@purdue)
e
s 00021/00010/00057
d D 6.1 85/04/27 13:04:56 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00066
d D 5.1 85/04/27 13:04:32 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00067/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/27 13:03:54 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH CATMAN 8 "4/3/81"
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH CATMAN 8 "4 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH CATMAN 8 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
catman \- create the cat files for the manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/catman
[
.B \-p
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-w
I 3
] [
.B \-M
D 6
.I directory
E 6
I 6
.I path
E 6
E 3
]
[ sections ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Catman
creates the preformatted versions of the on-line manual from the nroff
input files.
Each manual page is examined and those whose preformatted versions are
missing or out of date are recreated.
If any changes are made,
.I catman
will recreate the
D 3
.B /usr/lib/whatis
E 3
I 3
.B whatis
E 3
database.
.PP
If there is one parameter not starting with a `\-',
D 3
it is take to be a list of manual sections to look in.
E 3
I 3
it is taken to be a list of manual sections to look in.
E 3
For example
.IP
.B catman 123
.LP
will cause the updating to only happen to manual sections
1, 2, and 3.
.PP
Options:
.TP
.B \-n
D 3
prevents creations of
.BR /usr/lib/whatis .
E 3
I 3
prevents creations of the
.B whatis
database.
E 3
.TP
.B \-p
prints what would be done instead of doing it.
.TP
.B \-w
causes only the 
D 3
.B /usr/lib/whatis
E 3
I 3
.B whatis
E 3
database to be created.
No manual reformatting is done.
I 3
.TP
.B \-M
D 6
update manual pages located in the specified
.I directory
E 6
I 6
updates manual pages located in the set of directories specified by
.I path
E 6
(/usr/man by default).
I 6
.I Path
has the form of a colon (`:') separated list of directory names,
for example `/usr/local/man:/usr/man'.
If the environment variable `MANPATH' is set,
its value is used for the default path.
E 6
I 4
.PP
D 6
If the nroff source file contains only a line of the form ".so manx/yyy.x",
E 6
I 6
If the nroff source file contains only a line of the form `.so manx/yyy.x',
E 6
D 7
a link is made in the catx directory to the appropriate preformatted manual
page.
E 7
I 7
a symbolic link is made in the catx directory to the appropriate
preformatted manual page.
E 7
This feature allows easy distribution of the preformatted manual pages
among a group of associated machines with
.I rdist(1).
The nroff sources need not be distributed to all machines,
thus saving the associated disk space.
As an example, consider a local network with 5 machines,
called mach1 through mach5.
Suppose mach3 has the manual page nroff sources.
Every night, mach3 runs
.I catman
via
.I cron(8)
and later runs
.I rdist
with a distfile that looks like:
.IP
.nf
.ta \w'${MANUAL'u

MANSLAVES = ( mach1 mach2 mach4 mach5 )

D 5
MANUALS = (/usr/man/cat[1-8no] /usr/lib/whatis)
E 5
I 5
MANUALS = (/usr/man/cat[1-8no] /usr/man/whatis)
E 5

${MANUALS} -> ${MANSLAVES}
	install -R;
	notify root;

.fi
E 4
E 3
.SH FILES
D 3
.ta 2i
E 3
I 3
.nf
.ta \w'/usr/lib/makewhatis   'u
/usr/man	default manual directory location
E 3
/usr/man/man?/*.*	raw (nroff input) manual sections
D 3
.br
E 3
/usr/man/cat?/*.*	preformatted manual pages
D 3
.br
/usr/lib/makewhatis	commands to make whatis database
E 3
I 3
/usr/man/whatis	whatis database
/usr/lib/makewhatis	command script to make whatis database
.fi
E 3
.DT
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 4
man(1)
E 4
I 4
man(1), cron(8), rdist(1)
E 4
.SH BUGS
Acts oddly on nights with full moons.
E 1
