h29439
s 00024/00016/00071
d D 6.2 86/05/20 23:04:34 karels 4 3
c updates
e
s 00001/00001/00086
d D 6.1 85/04/27 13:11:18 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00038/00214/00049
d D 5.1 85/04/27 13:10:33 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00263/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/27 13:10:14 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH CONFIG 8 4/1/81
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH CONFIG 8 "28 July 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH CONFIG 8 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
config \- Build system configuration files
E 2
I 2
config \- build system configuration files
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/config
I 2
[
.B \-p
]
E 2
D 4
.I config_file
E 4
I 4
.I SYSTEM_NAME
E 4
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Config
builds a set of system configuration files from a short file which describes
the sort of system that is being configured.  It also takes as input a file
which tells
.I config
what files are needed to generate a system.
I 2
This can be augmented by a configuration specific set of files
that give alternate files for a specific machine.
(see the FILES section below)
If the
.B \-p
option is supplied, 
.I config
will configure a system for profiling; c.f.
D 4
.IR kgmon (8),
E 4
I 4
.IR kgmon (8)
and
E 4
.IR gprof (1).
E 2
.PP
.I Config
should be run from the
.B conf
D 2
subdirectory of the system source (usually /sys/conf
or /usr/src/sys/conf).
E 2
I 2
subdirectory of the system source (usually /sys/conf).
I 4
Its argument is the name of a system configuration file
containing device specifications, configuration options
and other system parameters for one system configuration.
E 4
E 2
.I Config
assumes that there is already a directory
D 4
.I "../config_file"
E 4
I 4
.I "../SYSTEM_NAME"
E 4
created and it places all its output files in there.  
The output of
.I config
D 4
consists of a number files:
E 4
I 4
consists of a number of files; for the VAX, they are:
E 4
.B ioconf.c
D 2
which contains a description
of what i/o devices are attached to the system, 
E 2
I 2
contains a description
D 4
of what i/o devices are attached to the system,;
E 4
I 4
of what I/O devices are attached to the system,;
E 4
E 2
.B ubglue.s
D 2
which is a set of interrupt service routines for devices
attached to the UNIBUS,
E 2
I 2
contains a set of interrupt service routines for devices
attached to the UNIBUS;
E 2
D 4
.B makefile
E 4
I 4
.B ubvec.s
contains offsets into a structure used for counting per-device interrupts;
.B Makefile
E 4
D 2
for building the system and a set of header files which contain
the number of various devices that will be compiled into the system.
E 2
I 2
is a file used by
.IR make (1)
D 4
in building the system; a set of header files which contain
E 4
I 4
in building the system; a set of header files contain definitions of
E 4
the number of various devices that will be compiled into the system;
D 4
and a set of swap configuration files which contain definitions for
E 4
I 4
and a set of swap configuration files contain definitions for
E 4
the disk areas to be used for swapping, the root file system,
argument processing, and system dumps.
E 2
.PP
After running
D 2
.I config,
E 2
I 2
.IR config ,
E 2
D 4
it is necessary to run "make depend" in the directory where the new makefile
E 4
I 4
it is necessary to run ``make depend'' in the directory where the new makefile
E 4
was created.
.I Config
D 4
reminds you of this when it completes.
E 4
I 4
prints a reminder of this when it completes.
E 4
.PP
D 4
If you get any other error messages from
E 4
I 4
If any other error messages are produced by
E 4
.I config,
D 4
you should fix the problems in your configuration file and try again.
D 2
If you try to compile a system that had configuration errors, you will
meet with failure.
.SH "CONFIG FILE FORMAT"
.PP
In the following descriptions, a number can be a decimal integer,
a whole octal number or a whole hexadecimal number.  Hex and octal
are specified to
.I config
in the same way they are specified to the C
compiler, a number starting with "0x" is a hex number and a number
starting with just a "0" is an octal number.  When specifying the
timezone, you may also use floating point numbers.
.PP
Comments are specified in a config file with the character "#".
All characters from a "#" to the end of a line are ignored.
.PP
Lines beginning with tabs are considered continuations of the previous
line.
.PP
Lines of the config file can be one of several types.  First there are
lines which describe general things about your system.  Here is a list
of the possibilities.
.HP 5
\fBcpu\fR\fI\ "type"\fR
.br
This system is to run on the cpu type specified.
More than one cpu type can appear in the config file.
Legal types are
.B VAX780, VAX750,
and
.B VAX7ZZ.
.HP 5
.BI options " optlist"
.br
Compile the listed options into the system.  Options in this list are
seperated by commas.
There is a list of options that you may specify in the generic makefile.
A line of the form "options FUNNY,HAHA" yields \-DFUNNY \-DHAHA to the
C compiler.
.HP 5
.BI timezone " number"
[
.B dst
]
.br
Specifies the timezone you are in.  This is measured in the number of hours
west of GMT you are.  5 is EST, 8 is PST.  If you specify
.B dst,
the system will operate under daylight savings time.
.HP 5
.BI ident " name"
.br
This system is to be known as
.I name.
This is usually a cute name like ERNIE (short for Ernie Co-Vax) or
VAXWELL (for Vaxwell Smart).
.HP 5
.BI maxusers " number"
.br
The maximum expected number of simultaneously active user on this system is
.I number.
This number is used to size several system data structures.
.HP 5
.BI config " device sysname"
.br
Generate a system which runs with its root on
.I device
and call it
.I sysname.
There may be more than one
.I config
specification in a config file.
.PP
The second type of line in the config file describes what devices your
system has and what they are connected to (e.g. I have a DZ-11 on UNIBUS
Adapter 0).
These lines have the following format.
.br
.I "	dev_type	dev_name	"
.B at
.I "con_dev more_info"
.PP
.I Dev_type
is either
.B master,
.B tape,
.B disk,
.B controller
.B device,
or
.B pseudo-device.
A master is a MASSBUS tape controller.
A controller is a disk controller, a UNIBUS tape controller,
an mba (MASSBUS) or a uba (UNIBUS).  A device is usually something which
connects to the uba, like a DZ-11 or a DR-11.
Disk and tape should be self-explanatory.
A pseudo-device is something
which should be conditionally loaded, but is not really a device.
Current examples are the
bk line discipline, the pseudo-tty driver and various network
subsystems.  If you load a subsystem
you will probably find it convenient to enable
conditionaly code using a
.B options
specification.
.PP
The
.I dev_name
is the name of the device you are specifying.  If it is not a pseudo-device,
you must give a number afterwards (e.g. dz0, dz1, hp0).
.PP
.I Con_dev
is what the device you are specifying is connected to.  If you have a disk
on MASSBUS adapter zero then the proper
.I con_dev
is
.B mba0.
For MASSBUS and UNIBUS adapters, you must give
.B nexus?
as the
.I con_dev.
.PP
The
.I more_info
field is a sequence of the following:
.HP 5
.BI csr " addr"
.br
Specifies the csr for a device.  Must be given for UNIBUS tape and disk
controllers and all devices connected to the UNIBUS.  Make certain that
you put a leading zero on the address so that it will be interpreted
as an octal number.
.HP 5
.BI drive " number"
.br
For a disk or UNIBUS tape, specifies which drive this is.
.HP 5
.BI slave " number"
.br
For a MASSBUS tape, specifies which tape slave it is.
.HP 5
.BI flags " number"
.br
These flags are passed to the device driver at system initialization time.
.HP 5
.BI vector " addr [ addr ]"
.br
For devices which interrupt on the UNIBUS, specifies the interrupt
service routine.
.PP
The easiest way to understand config files it to look at a working
one and modify it to suit your system.  Here is a short sample configuration
file for a system with an RM03, a TU45, a DZ-11 and a DH-11.
E 2
I 2
If you try to compile a system that had configuration errors, you
will likely meet with failure.
E 4
I 4
the problems in the configuration file should be corrected and
.I config
should be run again.
Attempts to compile a system that had configuration errors
are likely to meet with failure.
E 4
.SH FILES
E 2
.nf
D 2
.ta .5i 1.6i 2.2i 4.5i
	#
	# Sample configuration file
	#

	cpu	VAX780
	ident	SAMPLE
	hz	60
	timezone	8 dst
	maxusers	24

	config	hp	vmunix
	config	rk	rkvmunix

	controller	mba0	at nexus ?
	controller	uba0	at nexus ?
	disk	hp0	at mba0 drive 0
	master	ht0	at mba1 drive 0
	tape	tu0	at ht0 slave 0
	pseudo-device	pty
	pseudo-device	bk
	controller	hk0	at uba0 csr 0177440	vector rkintr
	disk	rk0	at hk0 drive 0
	disk	rk1	at hk0 drive 1
	device	dh1	at uba0 csr 0160040	vector dhrint dhxint
	device	dz0	at uba0 csr 0160100 flags 0xc0	vector dzrint dzxint
E 2
I 2
D 4
/sys/conf/makefile.vax	generic makefile for the VAX
E 4
I 4
/sys/conf/Makefile.vax	generic makefile for the VAX
E 4
/sys/conf/files	list of common files system is built from
/sys/conf/files.vax	list of VAX specific files
/sys/conf/devices.vax	name to major device mapping file for the VAX
/sys/conf/files.ERNIE	list of files specific to ERNIE system
E 2
.fi
D 2
.dt
.PP
A
.B ?
may be substituted for a number in two places and the system will
figure out what to fill in for the
.B ?
when it boots.  You can put question marks on a
.I con_dev
(e.g. at mba?) or on a drive number (e.g. drive ?).
This allows redundancy as a single system can be built
which will reboot on different hardware configurations.
.SH FILES
/sys/conf/makefile	Generic makefile
.br
/sys/conf/files	List of files system is built from
E 2
.SH SEE ALSO
I 2
D 4
``Building 4.2BSD UNIX System with Config''
E 4
I 4
``Building 4.3BSD UNIX System with Config''
E 4
.br
E 2
The SYNOPSIS portion of each device in section 4.
D 2
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Toy
E 2
.SH BUGS
The line numbers reported in error messages are usually off by one.
D 2
.PP
Should describe the format of the ``files'' file here; you can
probably figure it out for yourself in the meantime.
.PP
No exhaustive testing of responses to all the weird input semantic errors
possible has been done.
E 2
E 1
