h31200
s 00001/00001/00092
d D 6.5 86/05/16 02:15:37 lepreau 7 6
c clarify user
e
s 00042/00014/00051
d D 6.4 86/03/24 15:12:58 mckusick 6 5
c more extensive formatting for time fields (from Dave Yost)
e
s 00006/00007/00059
d D 6.3 86/01/14 16:52:00 donn 5 4
c Made it clear that the seventh (command) field is not terminated by the
c usual field separators; took out the confusing and wrong explanation of how
c the % character affects shell parsing.
e
s 00014/00007/00052
d D 6.2 86/01/10 05:12:40 lepreau 4 3
c doc crontab.local and "user" field; crontabs are checked on the minute
e
s 00001/00001/00058
d D 6.1 85/04/27 14:15:25 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00058
d D 5.1 85/04/27 14:14:57 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00059/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/27 14:14:19 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH CRON 8 "4/1/81"
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH CRON 8  "4 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH CRON 8 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.AT 3
.SH NAME
cron \- clock daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/cron
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Cron
executes commands at specified dates and times
D 4
according to the instructions in the file
/usr/lib/crontab.
E 4
I 4
according to the instructions in the files
/usr/lib/crontab and /usr/lib/crontab.local.
None, either one, or both of these files may be present.
E 4
Since
.I cron
never exits,
it should only be executed once.
This is best done by running
.I cron
from the initialization
process through the file
/etc/rc;
see
.IR init (8).
.PP
D 4
Crontab
consists of lines of six fields each.
E 4
I 4
The
crontab files
consist of lines of seven fields each.
E 4
The fields are separated by spaces or tabs.
D 6
The first five are integer patterns to
specify the
minute (0-59),
hour (0-23),
day of the month (1-31),
month of the year (1-12),
and day of the week (1-7 with 1=Monday).
Each of these patterns may
contain a number in the range above;
two numbers separated by
a minus
meaning a range inclusive;
E 6
I 6
The first five are integer patterns to specify:
.in +2m
.TP 2m
\(bu
minute (0-59)
.nr .0 \n()Pu
.nr )P 0
.TP 2m
\(bu
hour (0-23)
.TP 2m
\(bu
day of the month (1-31)
.TP 2m
\(bu
month of the year (1-12)
.TP 2m
\(bu
day of the week (1-7 with 1 = Monday)
.nr )P \n(.0u
.in -2m
.LP
Each of these patterns may contain:
.in +2m
.TP 2m
\(bu
a number in the range above
.nr .0 \n()Pu
.nr )P 0
.TP 2m
\(bu
two numbers separated by a minus
meaning a range inclusive
.TP 2m
\(bu
E 6
a list of numbers separated by
D 6
commas meaning any of the numbers;
or an asterisk meaning all legal values.
E 6
I 6
commas meaning any of the numbers
.TP 2m
\(bu
an asterisk meaning all legal values
.nr )P \n(.0u
.in -2m
.LP
E 6
D 4
The sixth field is a string
E 4
I 4
The sixth field is a user name: the
D 7
command will be run ``as'' that user.
E 7
I 7
command will be run with that user's uid and permissions.
E 7
D 5
The seventh field is a string
E 4
that is executed by the Shell at the
E 5
I 5
The seventh field consists of all the text
on a line following the sixth field,
including spaces and tabs;
this text is treated as a command
which is executed by the Shell at the
E 5
specified times.
D 5
A percent character
E 5
I 5
A percent character (``%'')
E 5
in this field is translated to a new-line
character.
D 5
Only the first line (up to a % or end of line)
of the command field is executed by the Shell.
The other lines are made available to the
command as standard input.
E 5
.PP
D 4
Crontab is examined by
E 4
I 4
Both
crontab files are checked by
E 4
.I cron
D 4
every minute.
E 4
I 4
every minute, on the minute.
E 4
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/crontab
I 4
.br
/usr/lib/crontab.local
E 4
E 1
