h10266
s 00014/00004/00077
d D 6.4 88/07/12 19:56:38 karels 5 4
c update
e
s 00010/00005/00071
d D 6.3 86/05/30 18:54:26 karels 4 3
c change to c partition
e
s 00000/00002/00076
d D 6.2 86/05/21 22:23:57 mckusick 3 2
c one bug down, one to go
e
s 00001/00001/00077
d D 6.1 85/04/27 14:49:55 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00078/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/04/27 14:49:34 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH DISKPART 8 "18 July 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH DISKPART 8 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
diskpart \- calculate default disk partition sizes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/diskpart
[
.B \-p
] [
.B \-d
I 5
] [
.B \-s
size
E 5
]
disk-type
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Diskpart
is used to calculate the disk partition sizes based on the
default rules used at Berkeley.  If the
.B \-p
option is supplied, tables suitable for inclusion in a device driver
are produced.  If the
.B \-d
option is supplied, an entry suitable for inclusion in the disk
description file
.I /etc/disktab
is generated; c.f.
.IR disktab (5).
D 4
Space is always left in the last partition on the disk
E 4
I 4
On disks that use
.IR bad144 \|-style
bad-sector forwarding,
D 5
space is left in the last partition on the disk
E 4
for a bad sector forwarding table.  The space reserved
E 5
I 5
space is normally left in the last partition on the disk
for a bad sector forwarding table, although this space
is not reflected in the tables produced.  The space reserved
E 5
is one track for the replicated copies of the table and
sufficient tracks to hold a pool of 126 sectors to which bad sectors
are mapped.  For more information, see 
.IR bad144 (8).
I 5
The size of the disk may be limited with the
.B \-s
option, specifying the amount of the disk to be used.
This option is intended for other controllers that reserve some space at the end
of the disk for bad-sector replacements or other control areas,
even if not a multiple of cylinders.
E 5
.PP
The disk partition sizes are based on the total amount of
D 4
space on the disk as give in the table below (all values
E 4
I 4
space on the disk as given in the table below (all values
E 4
D 5
are supplied in units of 512 byte sectors).  The `c' partition
E 5
I 5
are supplied in units of sectors).  The `c' partition
E 5
D 4
is, by convention, used to access the entire physical disk, including
the space reserved for the bad sector forwarding table.
E 4
I 4
is, by convention, used to access the entire physical disk.
The device driver tables include
the space reserved for the bad sector forwarding table in the `c' partition;
those used in the disktab and default formats exclude reserved tracks.
E 4
In normal operation, either the `g' partition is used, or the
`d', `e', and `f' partitions are used.  The `g' and `f' partitions
D 4
are variable sized, occupying whatever space remains after allocation
E 4
I 4
are variable-sized, occupying whatever space remains after allocation
E 4
of the fixed sized partitions.
If the disk is smaller than 20 Megabytes, then
.I diskpart
aborts with the message ``disk too small, calculate by hand''.
.in +0.5i
.nf

.ta \w'Partition  'u +\w'20-60 MB  'u +\w'61-205 MB  'u +\w'206-355 MB  'u +\w'356+ MB'u
Partition	20-60 MB	61-205 MB	206-355 MB	356+ MB
a	15884	15884	15884	15884
b	10032	33440	33440	66880
d	15884	15884	15884	15884
e	unused	55936	55936	307200
h	unused	unused	291346	291346

.fi
.in -0.5i
.PP
If an unknown disk type is specified, 
.I diskpart
will prompt for the required disk geometry information.
.SH SEE ALSO
disktab(5),
bad144(8)
.SH BUGS
D 5
Certain default partition sizes are based on historical artifacts
E 5
I 5
Most default partition sizes are based on historical artifacts
E 5
(e.g. RP06), and may result in unsatisfactory layouts.
.PP
When using the \-d flag, alternate disk names are not included
in the output.
D 3
.PP
Does not understand how to handle drives attached to a UDA50.
E 3
E 1
