h35862
s 00014/00008/00188
d D 6.7 88/07/09 11:31:53 bostic 7 6
c install approved copyright notice
e
s 00037/00013/00159
d D 6.6 88/06/13 17:59:28 karels 6 5
c update, describe write-protected label and kernel consistency checks
e
s 00017/00004/00154
d D 6.5 88/02/22 12:05:33 bostic 5 4
c change copyright to Berkeley specific; document N and W options
e
s 00028/00017/00130
d D 6.4 88/02/20 11:55:42 karels 4 3
c update to current prog
e
s 00001/00001/00146
d D 6.3 87/09/15 09:20:48 karels 3 2
c missing arg on -R
e
s 00015/00007/00132
d D 6.2 87/06/19 14:10:30 karels 2 1
c disklabel forces required "options"
e
s 00139/00000/00000
d D 6.1 87/06/18 21:15:33 karels 1 0
c from Symmetric, with update
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 7
.\" from Symmetric Computer Systems.
D 6
.\" Modifications Copyright (c) 1987 Regents of the University of California.
E 6
I 6
.\" Modifications Copyright (c) 1987,1988
.\" The Regents of the University of California.
E 7
I 7
.\" Copyright (c) 1987, 1988 Regents of the University of California.
E 7
E 6
D 5
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 5
I 5
.\" All rights reserved.
E 5
.\"
I 7
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Symmetric Computer Systems.
.\"
E 7
I 5
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
D 7
.\" provided that this notice is preserved and that due credit is given
.\" to the University of California at Berkeley. The name of the University
.\" may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
.\" software without specific prior written permission. This software
.\" is provided ``as is'' without express or implied warranty.
E 7
I 7
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
E 7
.\"
E 5
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.TH DISKLABEL 8 "%Q%"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
disklabel \- read and write disk pack label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B disklabel
[
.B \-r
]
.I disk
.br
.B disklabel \-w
[
.B \-r
]
.I disk
.I disktype
[
.I packid
[
.I priboot secboot
] ]
.br
.B disklabel \-e
[
.B \-r
]
.I disk
.br
.B disklabel \-R
[
.B \-r
]
D 3
.I disk
E 3
I 3
.I disk protofile
E 3
[
.I priboot secboot
]
I 5
.br
.B disklabel
[
.B \-NW
]
.I disk
E 5
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Disklabel
can be used to install, examine or modify the label on a disk drive or pack.
When writing the label, it can be used
to change the drive identification,
the disk partitions on the drive,
or to replace a damaged label or bootstrap.
D 2
The disk label and bootstrap are located on block 0 of each disk.
E 2
I 2
The disk label is located on one of the first sectors
of each disk (usually block 0).
On machines that require a block-0 bootstrap (VAX 11/750),
the label is inserted into the bootstrap program.
E 2
This information is used by the system disk driver and by the bootstrap
program to determine how to program the drive.
I 2
There are several forms of the command that display, install or modify
the label on a disk.
Each form has an additional option,
.BR \-r ,
which causes the label to be read from or written to the disk directly,
rather than going through the system's in-core copy of the label.
When writing, the in-core copy is also updated if possible.
I 4
This option may allow a label to be installed on a disk
without kernel support for a label, such as when labels are first installed
D 6
on a system.
E 6
I 6
on a system; it must be used when first installing a label on a disk.
E 6
E 4
E 2
.PP
The first form of the command is used to examine the label on the named
disk drive (e.g. hp0 or /dev/rhp0c).
It will display all of the parameters associated with the drive
and its partition layout.
D 6
The kernel's in-core label is displayed;
E 6
I 6
Unless the
.B \-r
flag is given,
the kernel's in-core copy of the label is displayed;
E 6
if the disk has no label, or the partition types on the disk are incorrect,
D 4
the kernel may have modified the label.
E 4
I 4
the kernel may have constructed or modified the label.
E 4
If the
.B \-r
flag is given, the label from the raw disk will be displayed rather
than the in-core label.
.PP
The second form of the command, with the
.B \-w
flag, is used to write a standard label on the designated drive.
The required arguments to
.I disklabel
are the drive to be labelled (e.g. hp0), and
the drive type as described in the
.IR disktab (5)
file.
The drive parameters and partitions are taken from that file.
If different disks of the same physical type are to have different
partitions, it will be necessary to have separate disktab entries
D 6
describing each or to edit the label as described below.
The first optional argument is a pack identification, up to 16 characters.
E 6
I 6
describing each, or to edit the label after installation as described below.
The first optional argument is a pack identification string,
up to 16 characters long.
E 6
The pack id must be quoted if it contains blanks.
If the
.B \-r
flag is given, the disk sectors containing the label and bootstrap
will be written directly,
D 4
otherwise only the label will be modified.
In either case, the kernel's in-core label is replaced.
D 2
On machines that require a block-0 bootstrap (VAX 11/750),
E 2
I 2
On machines that require a block-0 bootstrap,
E 2
the
E 4
I 4
D 6
otherwise the existing label will be modified in place without modifying
E 6
I 6
otherwise the existing label will be updated in place without modifying
E 6
the bootstrap.
If the disk does not already have a label, the
E 4
.B \-r
D 2
flag \fImust\fP be used when installing a label on a disk for the first time
to install the version of the bootstrap that understands disk labels.
E 2
I 2
D 4
flag is assumed with
.BR \-w .
E 2
An alternate version of the bootstrap may be specified
E 4
I 4
flag must be used.
In either case, the kernel's in-core label is replaced.
.PP
Alternate versions of the bootstrap files may be specified
E 4
after the pack identifier.
If an alternate bootstrap is not specified, the standard bootstrap will be used.
The bootstrap programs are located in
D 4
.IR /usr/mdec ,
with names of the form
E 4
I 4
.IR /usr/mdec .
The names of the bootstrap programs may be specified in
.IR disktab (5);
D 6
if not specified
with default names of the form
E 4
.IR disktype boot
E 6
I 6
if not specified,
the default names are of the form
.IR basename boot
E 6
for the primary (block 0) bootstrap, and
D 6
.RI boot disktype
E 6
I 6
.RI boot basename
E 6
for the secondary (block 1-15) bootstrap;
D 6
for example, /usr/mdec/hpboot and /usr/mdec/boothp.
E 6
I 6
for example, /usr/mdec/hpboot and /usr/mdec/boothp
if the disk device is
.BR hp0 .
E 6
.PP
An existing disk label may be edited by using the
.B \-e
flag.
The label is read from the in-core kernel copy,
or directly from the disk if the
.B \-r
flag is also given.
The label is formatted and then supplied to an editor for changes.
If no editor is specified in an EDITOR environment variable,
.IR vi (1)
is used.
When the editor terminates, the formatted label is reread
and used to rewrite the disk label.
D 2
A bootstrap is also installed if using the
.B \-r
option.
E 2
.PP
D 5
Finally,
I 4
with the 
E 5
I 5
With the
E 5
.B \-R
flag,
E 4
.I disklabel
is capable of restoring a disk label that was formatted
D 4
in a prior operation and saved in an ascii file by the use
of the 
.B \-R
flag.
The prototype file used to create the label is exactly that
produced when reading or editing a label.
I 2
A block-0 bootstrap is also installed on machines that use one.
E 4
I 4
in a prior operation and saved in an ascii file.
D 6
The prototype file used to create the label is in exactly the same format
that is produced when reading or editing a label.
E 6
I 6
The prototype file used to create the label should be in the same format
as that produced when reading or editing a label.
Comments are delimited by
.B #
and newline.
E 6
If the
.B \-r
option is also given,
a block-0 bootstrap is installed on machines that use one;
either the disktype or the names of the bootstrap files must be specified
on such machines.
I 5
.PP
Finally, the \fB-NW\fP flags for \fIdisklabel\fP explicitly disallow and
allow, respectively, writing of the pack label area on the selected disk.
E 5
E 4
E 2
.SH FILES
/etc/disktab
.br
/usr/mdec/\fIxx\fPboot
.br
/usr/mdec/boot\fIxx\fP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
disktab(5), disklabel(5)
I 6
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The kernel device drivers will not allow the size of a disk partition
to be decreased or the offset of a partition to be changed while it is open.
Some device drivers create a label containing only a single large partition
if a disk is unlabeled; thus, the label must be written to the ``a''
partition of the disk while it is open.
This sometimes requires the desired label to be set in two steps,
the first one creating at least one other partition,
and the second setting the label on the new partition
while shrinking the ``a'' partition.
.SH BUGS
When a disk name is given without a full pathname,
the constructed device name uses the ``c'' partition on the vax
and the ``a'' partition on the tahoe.
E 6
E 1
