h26080
s 00017/00006/00090
d D 6.3 86/05/22 20:12:17 karels 4 3
c refer to named
e
s 00001/00001/00095
d D 6.2 86/05/15 14:42:53 mckusick 3 2
c gethostent => gethostbyname
e
s 00001/00001/00095
d D 6.1 85/04/27 14:58:26 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00096/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/04/27 14:58:06 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH HTABLE 8 "4 March 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH HTABLE 8 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
htable \- convert NIC standard format host tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/htable
[
.B \-c
.I connected-nets
] [
.B \-l
.I local-nets
]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Htable
is used to convert host files in the format specified
in Internet RFC 810 to the format used by the network
library routines.  Three files are created as a result
of running 
.IR htable :
.IR hosts ,
.IR networks ,
and
.IR gateways .
The 
.I hosts
D 4
file is used by the 
E 4
I 4
file may be used by the 
E 4
D 3
.IR gethostent (3N)
E 3
I 3
.IR gethostbyname (3N)
E 3
D 4
routines in mapping host names to addresses.
E 4
I 4
routines in mapping host names to addresses
if the nameserver,
.IR named (8),
is not used.
E 4
The
.I networks
file is used by the
.IR getnetent (3N)
routines in mapping network names to numbers.
The
.I gateways
D 4
file is used by the routing daemon
E 4
I 4
file may be used by the routing daemon
E 4
in identifying ``passive'' Internet gateways;
see
.IR routed (8C)
for an explanation.
.PP
If any of the files
.IR localhosts ,
.IR localnetworks ,
or
.I localgateways
are present in the current directory,
the file's contents is prepended to the
output file.
Of these, only the gateways file is interpreted.
This allows sites to maintain local aliases and
entries which are not normally present in the
master database.
Only one gateway to each network will be placed in the gateways file;
a gateway listed in the localgateways file will override any in the
input file.
.PP
D 4
A list of networks to which the host is directly connected is specified with the
E 4
I 4
If the gateways file is to be used,
a list of networks to which the host is directly connected
is specified with the
E 4
.B \-c
flag.
The networks, separated by commas,
D 4
may be given by name or in internet-standard dot notation,
E 4
I 4
may be given by name or in Internet-standard dot notation,
E 4
e.g.
.B \-c
arpanet,128.32,local-ether-net.
.I Htable
only includes gateways
which are directly connected to one of the networks specified,
or which can be reached from another gateway on a connected net.
.PP
If the
.B \-l
option is given with a list of networks (in the same format as for
.BR \-c ),
these networks will be treated as ``local,''
and information about hosts on local networks is
taken only from the localhosts file.
Entries for local hosts from the main database will be omitted.
This allows the localhosts file to completely override
any entries in the input file.
.PP
.I Htable
is best used in conjunction with the
.IR gettable (8C)
program which retrieves the NIC database from a host.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
intro(3N),
D 4
gettable(8C)
E 4
I 4
gettable(8C),
named(8)
.SH BUGS
If the name-domain system provided network name mapping well as host
name mapping,
.I htable
would no longer be needed.
E 4
E 1
