h51035
s 00002/00037/00074
d D 6.2 88/05/02 16:41:20 mckusick 4 3
c update to reflect loss of -s flag
e
s 00001/00001/00110
d D 6.1 85/04/27 13:29:53 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00002/00002/00109
d D 5.1 85/04/27 13:29:31 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00111/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/27 13:29:13 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH ICHECK 8 "4/1/81"
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH ICHECK 8  "4 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH ICHECK 8 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
icheck \- file system storage consistency check
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/icheck
[
D 4
.B \-s
]  [
E 4
.B \-b
numbers ]
[ filesystem ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B N.B.:
.I Icheck
is obsoleted for normal consistency checking by
.IR fsck (8).
.PP
.I Icheck
examines a file system,
builds a bit map of used blocks,
and compares this bit map against
D 4
the free list maintained on the file system.
E 4
I 4
the free map maintained on the file system.
E 4
If the file system is not specified,
a set of default file systems
is checked.
The normal output of
.I icheck
includes a report of
.IP ""
The total number of files and the numbers of
regular, directory, block special and character special files.
.IP ""
The total number of blocks in use and the numbers of 
single-, double-, and triple-indirect blocks and directory blocks.
.IP ""
The number of free blocks.
.IP ""
The number of blocks missing; i.e. not in any file
D 4
nor in the free list.
E 4
I 4
nor in any free map.
E 4
.PP
D 4
The
.B \-s
option causes
.I icheck
to ignore the actual free list and reconstruct a new one
by rewriting the super-block of the file system.
The file system should be dismounted while this is done;
if this is not possible (for example if
the root file system has to be salvaged)
care should be taken that the system is quiescent and that
it is rebooted immediately afterwards so that the old, bad in-core
copy of the super-block will not continue to be used.
Notice also that
the words in the super-block
which indicate the size of the free list and of the
i-list are believed.
If the super-block has been curdled
these words will have to be patched.
The
.B \-s
option
causes the normal output reports to be suppressed.
.PP
E 4
Following the
.B \-b
option is a list of block numbers;
whenever any of the named blocks turns up in a file,
a diagnostic is produced.
.PP
.I Icheck
is faster if the raw version of the special file is used,
since it reads the i-list many blocks at a time.
.SH FILES
Default file systems vary with installation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fsck(8), dcheck(8), ncheck(8),
D 2
filsys(5), clri(8)
E 2
I 2
fs(5), clri(8)
E 2
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
For duplicate blocks
and bad blocks (which lie outside the file system)
.I icheck
announces the difficulty, the i-number, and the kind of block involved.
If a read error is encountered,
the block number of the bad block is printed and
.I icheck
considers it to contain 0.
D 4
`Bad freeblock' means that
a block number outside the available space was encountered in the free list.
`\fIn\fR dups in free'
means that
.IR n ""
blocks were found in the free list which
duplicate blocks either in some file or in the earlier part of the free list.
E 4
.SH BUGS
Since
.I icheck
is inherently two-pass in nature, extraneous diagnostics
may be produced if applied to active file systems.
.PP
It believes even preposterous super-blocks and
consequently can get core images.
D 4
.PP
The system should be fixed so that the reboot after fixing the root
file system is not necessary.
E 4
E 1
