h45959
s 00001/00001/00177
d D 6.5 87/09/30 08:06:02 bostic 6 5
c dstaddr to dest_address; bug report 4.3BSD/man/21
e
s 00030/00015/00148
d D 6.4 86/05/22 20:35:14 karels 5 4
c 
e
s 00041/00008/00122
d D 6.3 86/02/06 16:55:12 karels 4 3
c add metric, update netmask
e
s 00045/00002/00085
d D 6.2 85/09/16 17:54:20 sklower 3 2
c more xns support
e
s 00012/00003/00075
d D 6.1 85/04/27 14:59:07 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00078/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/04/27 14:58:46 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH IFCONFIG 8C "28 August 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH IFCONFIG 8C "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
ifconfig \- configure network interface parameters
.SH SYOPNSIS
.B /etc/ifconfig
D 3
interface
E 3
I 3
interface address_family
E 3
[
.I address
D 2
] [
E 2
I 2
[
.I dest_address
] ] [
E 2
.I parameters
]
I 3
.br
.B /etc/ifconfig
interface
[
protocol_family
]
E 3
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ifconfig
is used to assign an address
to a network interface and/or configure
network interface parameters.
.I Ifconfig
must be used at boot time to define the network address
of each interface present on a machine; it may also be used at
D 5
a later time to redefine an interface's address.  The
E 5
I 5
a later time to redefine an interface's address
or other operating parameters.  The
E 5
.I interface
D 3
parameter is a string of the form ``name unit'', e.g. ``en0'', while
E 3
I 3
parameter is a string of the form ``name unit'', e.g. ``en0''.
.LP
Since an interface may receive transmissions in differing protocols,
D 5
each of which may required separate naming schemes, it is necessary
E 5
I 5
each of which may require separate naming schemes, it is necessary
E 5
to specify the
D 5
.IR protocol_family ,
E 5
I 5
.IR address_family ,
E 5
which may change the interpretation of the remaining parameters.
D 5
The address protocols current supported are ``inet'' and ``ns''.
E 5
I 5
The address families currently supported are ``inet'' and ``ns''.
E 5
.LP
For the DARPA-Internet family,
E 3
the address is either a host name present in the host name data
base, 
.IR hosts (5),
or a DARPA Internet address expressed in the Internet standard
``dot notation''.
I 3
For the Xerox Network Systems(tm) family,
addresses are 
.IR net:a.b.c.d.e.f ,
where
.I net
is the assigned network number (in decimal),
D 5
and each of the six bytes are specified in hexadecimal.
E 5
I 5
and each of the six bytes of the host number,
.I a
through
.IR f ,
are specified in hexadecimal.
The host number may be omitted on 10Mb/s Ethernet interfaces,
which use the hardware physical address,
and on interfaces other than the first.
E 5
E 3
.PP
The following parameters may be set with 
.IR ifconfig :
.TP 15
.B up
Mark an interface ``up''. 
I 4
This may be used to enable an interface after an ``ifconfig down.''
It happens automatically when setting the first address on an interface.
If the interface was reset when previously marked down,
the hardware will be re-initialized.
E 4
.TP 15
.B down
Mark an interface ``down''.  When an interface is
marked ``down'', the system will not attempt to
transmit messages through that interface. 
I 4
If possible, the interface will be reset to disable reception as well.
I 5
This action does not automatically disable routes using the interface.
E 5
E 4
.TP 15
.B trailers
D 4
Enable the use of a ``trailer'' link level encapsulation when
E 4
I 4
Request the use of a ``trailer'' link level encapsulation when
E 4
sending (default).
If a network interface supports
.IR trailers ,
the system will, when possible, encapsulate outgoing
messages in a manner which minimizes the number of
memory to memory copy operations performed by the receiver.
I 4
On networks that support the Address Resolution Protocol (see
.IR arp (4P);
currently, only 10 Mb/s Ethernet),
this flag indicates that the system should request that other
systems use trailers when sending to this host.
Similarly, trailer encapsulations will be sent to other
hosts that have made such requests.
I 5
Currently used by Internet protocols only.
E 5
E 4
.TP 15
.B \-trailers
Disable the use of a ``trailer'' link level encapsulation.
.TP 15
.B arp
Enable the use of the Address Resolution Protocol in mapping
between network level addresses and link level addresses (default). 
This is currently implemented for mapping between DARPA Internet
D 2
addreses and 10Mb/s Ethernet addresses.
E 2
I 2
addresses and 10Mb/s Ethernet addresses.
E 2
.TP 15
.B \-arp
Disable the use of the Address Resolution Protocol.
I 2
.TP 15
I 4
.BI metric " n"
Set the routing metric of the interface to
.IR n ,
default 0.
The routing metric is used by the routing protocol
.RI ( routed (8c)).
Higher metrics have the effect of making a route
less favorable; metrics are counted as addition hops
to the destination network or host.
.TP 15
E 4
.B debug
Enable driver dependent debugging code; usually, this turns on
extra console error logging.
.TP 15
.B \-debug
Disable driver dependent debugging code.
I 3
.TP 15
D 4
.B netmask
Specify how much of the address you wish to reserve for subdiving
Class A and B networks into sub-networks.
(Inet only).
E 4
I 4
.BI netmask " mask"
(Inet only)
D 5
Specify how much of the address you wish to reserve for subdividing
E 5
I 5
Specify how much of the address to reserve for subdividing
E 5
networks into sub-networks.
I 5
The mask includes the network part of the local address
and the subnet part, which is taken from the host field of the address.
E 5
The mask can be specified as a single hexadecimal number
D 5
with a leading 0x, in the style of a dot-notation Internet address,
or as a pseudo-network name.
The mask contains 1's for the positions in the 32-bit address
E 5
I 5
with a leading 0x, with a dot-notation Internet address,
or with a pseudo-network name listed in the network table
.IR networks (5).
The mask contains 1's for the bit positions in the 32-bit address
E 5
which are to be used for the network and subnet parts,
and 0's for the host part.
The mask should contain at least the standard network portion,
D 5
and the subnet field should normally be contiguous with the network
E 5
I 5
and the subnet field should be contiguous with the network
E 5
portion.
E 4
.TP 15
D 6
.B dstaddr
E 6
I 6
.B dest_address
E 6
D 4
Specify the correspondent on the other end of a point to point link
E 4
I 4
Specify the address of the correspondent on the other end
of a point to point link.
E 4
.TP 15
.B broadcast
I 4
(Inet only)
E 4
D 5
Specify the address you wish to use to represent broadcasts to the
E 5
I 5
Specify the address to use to represent broadcasts to the
E 5
network.
I 5
The default broadcast address is the address with a host part of all 1's.
E 5
.TP 15
.B ipdst
D 5
This is used to specify an internet host who is willing to receive
E 5
I 5
(NS only)
This is used to specify an Internet host who is willing to receive
E 5
D 4
ip packets encapsulating ns packets bound for a remote network.
E 4
I 4
ip packets encapsulating NS packets bound for a remote network.
E 4
In this case, an apparent point to point link is constructed, and
D 4
the address you specify will be taken as the ns address and network
E 4
I 4
D 5
the address you specify will be taken as the NS address and network
E 5
I 5
the address specified will be taken as the NS address and network
E 5
E 4
of the destinee.
E 3
E 2
.PP
.I Ifconfig
displays the current configuration for a network interface
when no optional parameters are supplied.
I 3
If a protocol family is specified,
Ifconfig will report only the details specific to that protocol family.
E 3
.PP
Only the super-user may modify the configuration of a network interface.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Messages indicating the specified interface does not exit, the
D 5
requested address is unknown, the user is not privileged and
E 5
I 5
requested address is unknown, or the user is not privileged and
E 5
tried to alter an interface's configuration.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
D 5
rc(8), intro(4N), netstat(1)
E 5
I 5
netstat(1), intro(4N), rc(8)
E 5
E 1
