h15949
s 00003/00005/00047
d D 6.2 86/05/22 20:36:38 karels 3 2
c update
e
s 00001/00001/00051
d D 6.1 85/04/27 15:00:23 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00052/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/04/27 15:00:00 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH IMPLOGD 8C "4 March 1983"
E 2
I 2
.TH IMPLOGD 8C "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
implogd \- IMP logger process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/implogd
[
.B \-d
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Implogd
D 3
is program which logs messages from the IMP,
E 3
I 3
is program which logs error messages from the IMP,
E 3
placing them in the file
.IR /usr/adm/implog .
.PP
Entries in the file are variable length.  Each log
entry has a fixed length header of the form:
.PP
.ta 0.5i 1.0i 1.5i
.nf
struct sockstamp {
	short	sin_family;
	u_short	sin_port;
	struct	in_addr sin_addr;
	time_t	sin_time;
	int	sin_len;
};
.fi
.PP
followed, possibly, by the message received from the 
IMP.  Each time the logging process is started up it
places a time stamp entry in the file (a header with
.I sin_len
field set to 0).
.PP
The logging process will catch only those message from
the IMP which are not processed by a protocol module,
e.g. IP.  This implies the log should contain only
D 3
status information such as ``IMP going down'' messages
E 3
I 3
status information such as ``IMP going down'' messages,
``host down'' and other error messages,
E 3
and, perhaps, stray NCP messages.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
imp(4P),
implog(8C)
D 3
.SH BUGS
The messages should probably be sent to the system error
logging process instead of maintaining yet another log file.
E 3
E 1
