h16420
s 00004/00003/00049
d D 6.3 86/05/23 15:55:22 karels 3 2
c refer to named
e
s 00001/00001/00051
d D 6.2 86/05/10 20:31:21 mckusick 2 1
c format
e
s 00052/00000/00000
d D 6.1 85/04/27 16:15:32 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.3BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
.TH MKHOSTS 8 "%Q%"
.UC 6
.SH NAME
D 2
mkhosts - generate hashed host table
E 2
I 2
mkhosts \- generate hashed host table
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/mkhosts
[
.B \-v
]
hostfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mkhosts
D 3
is used to generated the hashed host database used by the
E 3
I 3
is used to generated the hashed host database used by one version of the
E 3
library routines
.B gethostbyaddr()
and
.BR gethostbyname() .
I 3
It is not used if host name translation is performed by
.IR named (8).
E 3
If the
.B \-v
option is supplied, each host will be listed as it is added.
The file
.I hostfile
is usually /etc/hosts, and in any case
must be in the format of /etc/hosts (see hosts(5)).
.I Mkhosts
will generate database files named
.I hostfile.pag
and
.I hostfile.dir.
The new database is build in a set of temporary files and
only replaces the real database if the new one is built
without errors.
.I Mkhosts
will exit with a non-zero exit code if any errors are detected.
.SH FILES
.ta \w'hostfile.new.dir    'u
\fIhostfile\fR.pag	- real database filenames
.br
\fIhostfile\fR.dir
.br
\fIhostfile\fR.new.pag	- temporary database filenames
.br
\fIhostfile\fR.new.dir
.SH SEE ALSO
D 3
gethostbyaddr(3), gethostbyname(3), gettable(8), hosts(5), htable(8)
.SH BUGS
E 3
I 3
gethostbyname(3), gettable(8), hosts(5), htable(8), named(8)
E 3
E 1
