h52458
s 00001/00001/00089
d D 6.1 85/04/27 13:36:01 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00089
d D 5.1 85/04/27 13:35:39 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00090/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/27 13:35:24 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH MOUNT 8 "4/1/81"
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH MOUNT 8  "4 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH MOUNT 8 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
mount, umount \- mount and dismount file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/mount
[ special name [
.B \-r
] ]
.PP
.B /etc/mount
.B \-a
.PP
.B /etc/umount
special
.PP
.B /etc/umount
.B \-a
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mount
announces to the system that a removable file system
is present on the device
.I special.
The file
.I name
must exist already; it
must be a directory (unless the root of the
mounted file system is not a directory).
It becomes the name of the newly mounted root.
The optional argument
.B \-r
indicates that the file system
is to be mounted read-only.
.PP
.I Umount
announces to the system that the removable file system previously
mounted on device
.I special
is to be removed.
.PP
If the
.B \-a
option is present for either
.I mount
or
.I umount,
all of the file systems described in
.I /etc/fstab
are attempted to be mounted or unmounted.
In this case,
.I special
and
.I name
are taken from
.I /etc/fstab.
The
.I special
file name from
.I /etc/fstab
is the block special name.
.PP
These commands
maintain a table of mounted devices in
.I /etc/mtab.
If invoked without an argument,
.I mount
prints the table.
.PP
Physically write-protected and magnetic tape file
systems must be mounted read-only
or errors will occur when access times are updated,
whether or not any explicit write is attempted.
.SH FILES
/etc/mtab	mount table
.br
/etc/fstab	file system table
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mount(2),
mtab(5), fstab(5)
.SH BUGS
Mounting file systems full of garbage will crash the system.
.br
Mounting a root directory on a non-directory
makes some apparently good pathnames invalid.
E 1
