h36606
s 00005/00007/00054
d D 6.2 86/01/13 00:29:22 donn 4 3
c There is no default filesystem.  More than one filesystem may be specified.
e
s 00001/00001/00060
d D 6.1 85/04/27 13:36:58 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00002/00003/00059
d D 5.1 85/04/27 13:36:38 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00062/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/27 13:36:19 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH NCHECK 8 "4/1/81"
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH NCHECK 8  "4 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH NCHECK 8 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
ncheck  \-  generate names from i-numbers
E 2
I 2
D 4
ncheck \-  generate names from i-numbers
E 4
I 4
ncheck \- generate names from i-numbers
E 4
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/ncheck
[
.B \-i
D 4
numbers ]  [
E 4
I 4
numbers ] [
E 4
.B \-a
] [
.B \-s
D 4
]  [ filesystem ]
E 4
I 4
] filesystems ...
E 4
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B N.B.:
For most normal file system maintenance, the function of
.I ncheck
is subsumed by
.IR fsck (8).
.PP
.I Ncheck
D 4
with no argument
E 4
I 4
with no options
E 4
generates a pathname vs. i-number
list of all files
D 4
on a set of default file systems.
E 4
I 4
on every specified filesystem.
E 4
Names of directory files are followed by `/\fB.\fR'.
The
.B \-i
option reduces the report to only those files whose i-numbers follow.
The
.B \-a
option
allows printing of the names
.RB ` . '
and
.RB ` .. ',
which are ordinarily suppressed.
D 2
suppressed.
E 2
The
.B \-s
option reduces the report to special files
and files with set-user-ID mode;
it is intended to discover concealed violations
of security policy.
D 4
.PP
A file system may be specified.
E 4
.PP
The report is in no useful
order, and probably should be sorted.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sort(1), dcheck(8), fsck(8), icheck(8)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
When the filesystem structure is improper,
`??' denotes the `parent' of
a parentless file and
a pathname beginning with `...' denotes a loop.
E 1
