h15422
s 00012/00002/00072
d D 6.2 85/10/30 12:29:19 bloom 3 2
c add -m flag for grouping hosts, comment about price in printcap
e
s 00005/00001/00069
d D 6.1 85/04/27 15:37:42 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00070/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/04/27 15:37:11 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH PAC 8 "21 February 1981"
E 2
I 2
.TH PAC 8 "%Q%"
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
D 3
pac \- printer/ploter accounting information
E 3
I 3
pac \- printer/plotter accounting information
E 3
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/pac
[
.B \-Pprinter
] [
.B \-pprice
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-c
I 3
] [
.B \-m
E 3
] [ name ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pac
reads the printer/plotter accounting files, accumulating the number
of pages (the usual case) or feet (for raster devices)
of paper consumed by each user, and printing out
how much each user consumed in pages or feet and dollars.
If any
.I names
are specified, then statistics are only printed for those users;
usually, statistics are printed for every user who has used any paper.
.PP
The
.B \-P
flag causes accounting to be done for the named printer.
Normally, accounting is done for the default printer (site dependent) or
the value of the environment variable
.B PRINTER
is used.
.PP
The
.B \-p
flag causes the value
.I price
D 3
to be used for the cost in dollars instead of the default value of 0.02.
E 3
I 3
to be used for the cost in dollars instead of the default value of 0.02
or the price specified in
.IR /etc/printcap.
E 3
.PP
The
.B \-c
flag causes the output to be sorted by cost; usually the
output is sorted alphabetically by name.
.PP
The
.B \-r
flag reverses the sorting order.
.PP
The
.B \-s
flag causes the accounting information to be summarized on the
summary accounting file; this summarization is necessary since on a
busy system, the accounting file can grow by several lines per day.
I 3
.PP
The
.B \-m
flag causes the host name to be ignored in the accounting file.  This
allows for a user on multiple machines to have all of his printing
charges grouped together.
E 3
.SH FILES
.ta 2i
/usr/adm/?acct	raw accounting files
.br
/usr/adm/?_sum	summary accounting files
I 2
.br
/etc/printcap	printer capability data base
.SH SEE ALSO
printcap(5)
E 2
.SH BUGS
The relationship between the computed price and reality is
as yet unknown.
E 1
