h23740
s 00016/00009/00418
d D 6.3 88/09/20 18:20:09 bostic 5 4
c Berkeley copyright
e
s 00078/00043/00349
d D 6.2 86/05/22 13:48:07 eric 4 3
c cleanup for 4.3bsd
e
s 00001/00001/00391
d D 6.1 85/04/27 13:18:32 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00300/00162/00092
d D 5.1 85/04/27 13:17:26 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00254/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/27 13:15:52 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
E 5
I 5
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
E 5
.\"
I 5
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
.\" provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
.\" duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
.\" advertising materials, and other materials related to such
.\" distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
.\" by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the
.\" University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
.\" from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
E 5
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH DELIVERMAIL 8 "4/1/81"
E 2
I 2
D 5
.\"	@(#)sendmail.8	4.2		7/28/83
E 5
D 3
.TH SENDMAIL 8 "7/28/83"
E 3
I 3
.TH SENDMAIL 8 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 2
delivermail \- deliver mail to arbitrary people
E 2
I 2
sendmail \- send mail over the internet
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
.B /etc/delivermail
E 2
I 2
.B /usr/lib/sendmail
E 2
[
D 2
.BR \- [ fr ]
.I address
E 2
I 2
flags
E 2
] [
D 2
.B \-a
] [
.BI \-e x
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-m
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-i
] [
.B \-h
.I N
] address ...
E 2
I 2
address ...
]
.PP
.B newaliases
.PP
.B mailq
I 4
[
.B \-v
]
E 4
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
.I Delivermail
delivers a letter to one or more people,
routing the letter over whatever networks
E 2
I 2
.I Sendmail
D 4
sends a message to one or more people,
E 4
I 4
sends a message to one or more
.IR recipients ,
E 4
routing the message over whatever networks
E 2
are necessary.
D 2
.I Delivermail
will do inter-net forwarding as necessary
to deliver the mail to the correct place.
E 2
I 2
.I Sendmail
does internetwork forwarding as necessary
to deliver the message to the correct place.
E 2
.PP
D 2
.I Delivermail
E 2
I 2
.I Sendmail
E 2
is not intended as a user interface routine;
D 2
it is expected that other programs will provide user-friendly
front ends,
and
.I delivermail
will be used only to deliver pre-formatted messages.
E 2
I 2
other programs provide user-friendly
front ends;
.I sendmail
is used only to deliver pre-formatted messages.
E 2
.PP
D 2
.I Delivermail
E 2
I 2
With no flags,
.I sendmail
E 2
reads its standard input
D 4
up to a control-D
or a line with a single dot
and sends a copy of the letter found there
E 4
I 4
up to an end-of-file
or a line consisting only of a single dot
and sends a copy of the message found there
E 4
to all of the addresses listed.
D 2
If the
.B \-i
flag is given,
single dots are ignored.
E 2
D 4
It determines the network to use
E 4
I 4
It determines the network(s) to use
E 4
D 2
based on the syntax of the addresses.
Addresses containing the character `@'
or the word \*(lqat\*(rq
are sent to the
.SM ARPANET;
addresses containing `!'
are sent to the
.SM UUCP
net,
and addresses containing `:' or `.'
are sent to the Berkeley network.
Other addresses are assumed to be local.
E 2
I 2
based on the syntax and contents of the addresses.
E 2
.PP
Local addresses are looked up in a file
D 2
constructed by
.IR newaliases (1)
from the data file
.I /usr/lib/aliases
E 2
and aliased appropriately.
Aliasing can be prevented by preceding the address
D 2
with a backslash or using the
.B \-n
flag.
E 2
I 2
with a backslash.
E 2
Normally the sender is not included in any alias
expansions, e.g.,
if `john' sends to `group',
and `group' includes `john' in the expansion,
then the letter will not be delivered to `john'.
D 2
The
.B \-m
flag disables this suppression.
E 2
.PP
D 2
.I Delivermail
computes the person sending the mail
by looking at your login name.
The \*(lqfrom\*(rq person
can be explicitly specified by using the
E 2
I 2
Flags are:
.TP 1.2i
.B \-ba
Go into \s-1ARPANET\s0 mode.
All input lines must end with a CR-LF,
and all messages will be generated with a CR-LF at the end.
Also,
the ``From:'' and ``Sender:''
fields are examined for the name of the sender.
.TP 1.2i
.B \-bd
Run as a daemon.  This requires Berkeley IPC.
I 4
.I Sendmail
will fork and run in background
listening on socket 25 for incoming SMTP connections.
This is normally run from
.IR /etc/rc .
E 4
.TP 1.2i
.B \-bi
Initialize the alias database.
.TP 1.2i
.B \-bm
Deliver mail in the usual way (default).
.TP 1.2i
.B \-bp
Print a listing of the queue.
.TP 1.2i
.B \-bs
D 4
Use the \s-2SMTP\s0 protocol as described in RFC821.
E 4
I 4
Use the \s-2SMTP\s0 protocol as described in RFC821
on standard input and output.
E 4
This flag implies all the operations of the
.B \-ba
flag that are compatible with \s-2SMTP\s0.
.TP 1.2i
.B \-bt
Run in address test mode.
This mode reads addresses and shows the steps in parsing;
it is used for debugging configuration tables.
.TP 1.2i
.B \-bv
Verify names only \- do not try to collect or deliver a message.
Verify mode is normally used for validating
users or mailing lists.
.TP 1.2i
.B \-bz
Create the configuration freeze file.
.TP 1.2i
.BI \-C file
Use alternate configuration file.
I 4
.I Sendmail
refuses to run as root if an alternate configuration file is specified.
The frozen configuration file is bypassed.
E 4
.TP 1.2i
.BI \-d X
Set debugging value to
.I X.
.TP 1.2i
.BI \-F fullname
Set the full name of the sender.
.TP 1.2i
.BI \-f name
Sets the name of the ``from'' person
(i.e., the sender of the mail).
E 2
.B \-f
D 2
flag;
or, if the
.B \-a
flag is given,
delivermail looks in the body of the message
for a \*(lqFrom:\*(rq or \*(lqSender:\*(rq
field in
.SM ARPANET
format.
The
.B \-f
E 2
I 2
can only be used
D 4
by the special users
E 4
I 4
by ``trusted'' users
(normally
E 4
.I root,
.I daemon,
E 2
and
D 2
.B \-a
flags can be used
only by the special users
.I root
and
E 2
D 4
.I network,
E 4
I 4
.I network)
E 4
or if the person you are trying to become
is the same as the person you are.
D 2
The
.B \-r
flag is entirely equivalent to the
E 2
I 2
.TP 1.2i
.BI \-h N
Set the hop count to
.I N.
The hop count is incremented every time the mail is
processed.
When it reaches a limit,
the mail is returned with an error message,
the victim of an aliasing loop.
I 4
If not specified,
``Received:'' lines in the message are counted.
E 4
.TP 1.2i
.B \-n
Don't do aliasing.
.TP 1.2i
.BI \-o x\|value
Set option
.I x
to the specified
.I value.
Options are described below.
.TP 1.2i
.BI \-q[ time ]
Processed saved messages in the queue at given intervals.
If
D 4
.IT time
E 4
I 4
.I time
E 4
is omitted,
process the queue once.
D 4
.IT Time
E 4
I 4
.I Time
E 4
is given as a tagged number,
with `s' being seconds,
`m' being minutes,
`h' being hours,
`d' being days,
and
`w' being weeks.
For example,
``\-q1h30m'' or ``\-q90m''
would both set the timeout to one hour thirty minutes.
I 4
If
.I time
is specified,
.I sendmail
will run in background.
This option can be used safely with
.BR \-bd .
E 4
.TP 1.2i
.BI \-r name
An alternate and obsolete form of the
E 2
.B \-f
D 2
flag; it is provided for ease of interface only.
E 2
I 2
flag.
.TP 1.2i
.B \-t
Read message for recipients.
D 4
To:, Cc:, and Bcc: lines will be scanned for people to send to.
E 4
I 4
To:, Cc:, and Bcc: lines will be scanned for recipient addresses.
E 4
The Bcc: line will be deleted before transmission.
D 4
Any addresses in the argument list will be suppressed.
E 4
I 4
Any addresses in the argument list will be suppressed,
that is,
they will
.I not
receive copies even if listed in the message header.
E 4
.TP 1.2i
.B \-v
Go into verbose mode.
Alias expansions will be announced, etc.
E 2
.PP
D 2
The
.BI \-e x
flag controls the disposition of error output,
as follows:
.TP 3n
.B e
Print errors on the standard output,
and echo a copy of the message when done.
It is assumed that a network server will
return the message back to the user.
.TP
.B m
Mail errors back to the user.
.TP
.B p
Print errors on the standard output.
.TP
.B q
Throw errors away;
only exit status is returned.
.TP
.B w
Write errors back to the user's terminal,
but only if the user is still logged in
and write permission is enabled;
otherwise errors are mailed back.
.LP
If the error is not mailed back,
and if the mail originated on the machine where the error occurred,
the letter is appended to the file
.I dead.letter
E 2
I 2
There are also a number of processing options that may be set.
Normally these will only be used by a system administrator.
Options may be set either on the command line
using the
.B \-o
flag
or in the configuration file.
These are described in detail in the
.ul
D 4
Installation and Operation Guide.
E 4
I 4
Sendmail Installation and Operation Guide.
E 4
The options are:
.TP 1.2i
.RI A file
Use alternate alias file.
.TP 1.2i
c
On mailers that are considered ``expensive'' to connect to,
don't initiate immediate connection.
This requires queueing.
.TP 1.2i
.RI d x
Set the delivery mode to
.I x.
Delivery modes are
`i' for interactive (synchronous) delivery,
`b' for background (asynchronous) delivery,
and
`q' for queue only \- i.e.,
actual delivery is done the next time the queue is run.
.TP 1.2i
D
Try to automatically rebuild the alias database
if necessary.
.TP 1.2i
.RI e x
Set error processing to mode
.I x.
Valid modes are
`m' to mail back the error message,
`w' to ``write'' back the error message
(or mail it back if the sender is not logged in),
`p' to print the errors on the terminal
(default),
`q' to throw away error messages
(only exit status is returned),
and `e'
to do special processing for the BerkNet.
If the text of the message is not mailed back
by
modes `m' or `w'
and if the sender is local to this machine,
a copy of the message is appended to the file
``dead.letter''
E 2
in the sender's home directory.
I 2
.TP 1.2i
.RI F mode
The mode to use when creating temporary files.
.TP 1.2i
f
Save UNIX-style From lines at the front of messages.
.TP 1.2i
.RI g N
The default group id to use when calling mailers.
.TP 1.2i
.RI H file
The SMTP help file.
.TP 1.2i
i
Do not take dots on a line by themselves
as a message terminator.
.TP 1.2i
.RI L n
The log level.
.TP 1.2i
m
Send to ``me'' (the sender) also if I am in an alias expansion.
.TP 1.2i
o
If set, this message may have
old style headers.
If not set,
this message is guaranteed to have new style headers
(i.e., commas instead of spaces between addresses).
If set, an adaptive algorithm is used that will correctly
determine the header format in most cases.
.TP 1.2i
.RI Q queuedir
Select the directory in which to queue messages.
.TP 1.2i
.RI r timeout
The timeout on reads;
if none is set,
.I sendmail
will wait forever for a mailer.
I 4
This option violates the word (if not the intent) of the SMTP specification,
show the timeout should probably be fairly large.
E 4
.TP 1.2i
.RI S file
Save statistics in the named file.
.TP 1.2i
s
Always instantiate the queue file,
even under circumstances where it is not strictly necessary.
I 4
This provides safety against system crashes during delivery.
E 4
.TP 1.2i
.RI T time
D 4
Set the timeout on messages in the queue to the specified time.
After sitting in the queue for this amount of time,
they will be returned to the sender.
E 4
I 4
Set the timeout on undelivered messages in the queue to the specified time.
After delivery has failed
(e.g., because of a host being down)
for this amount of time,
failed messages will be returned to the sender.
E 4
The default is three days.
.TP 1.2i
.RI t stz,dtz
Set the name of the time zone.
.TP 1.2i
.RI u N
Set the default user id for mailers.
E 2
.PP
D 4
If the first character of the user name
is a vertical bar,
the rest of the user name is used as the name of a program
E 4
I 4
In aliases,
the first character of a name may be
a vertical bar to cause interpretation of
the rest of the name as a command
E 4
to pipe the mail to.
D 4
It may be necessary to quote the name of the user
E 4
I 4
It may be necessary to quote the name
E 4
to keep
D 2
.I delivermail
E 2
I 2
.I sendmail
E 2
from suppressing the blanks from between arguments.
I 4
For example, a common alias is:
E 4
.PP
I 4
	msgs: "|/usr/ucb/msgs -s"
.PP
Aliases may also have the syntax ``:include:\c
.IR filename ''
to ask
.I sendmail
to read the named file for a list of recipients.
For example, an alias such as:
.PP
	poets: ":include:/usr/local/lib/poets.list"
.PP
would read
.I /usr/local/lib/poets.list
for the list of addresses making up the group.
.PP
E 4
D 2
The message is normally edited to eliminate \*(lqFrom\*(rq
lines that might confuse other mailers.
In particular,
\*(lqFrom\*(rq lines in the header are deleted,
and \*(lqFrom\*(rq lines in the body are prepended by `>'.
The
.B \-s
flag saves \*(lqFrom\*(rq lines in the header.
.PP
The
.B \-h
flag gives a \*(lqhop-count\*(rq, i.e.,
a measure of how many times this message
has been processed by
.I delivermail
(presumably on different machines).
Each time
.I delivermail
processes a message,
it increases the hop-count by one;
if it exceeds 30
.I delivermail
assumes that an alias loop has occurred
and it aborts the message.
The hop-count defaults to zero.
.PP
.I Delivermail
E 2
I 2
.I Sendmail
E 2
returns an exit status
describing what it did.
D 2
The codes are defined in <sysexits.h>
E 2
I 2
The codes are defined in
.RI < sysexits.h >
E 2
.ta 3n +\w'EX_UNAVAILABLE'u+3n
.de XX
.ti \n(.iu
..
.in +\w'EX_UNAVAILABLE'u+6n
.XX
 	EX_OK	Successful completion on all addresses.
.XX
 	EX_NOUSER	User name not recognized.
.XX
 	EX_UNAVAILABLE	Catchall meaning necessary resources
were not available.
.XX
 	EX_SYNTAX	Syntax error in address.
.XX
 	EX_SOFTWARE	Internal software error,
including bad arguments.
.XX
 	EX_OSERR	Temporary operating system error,
such as \*(lqcannot fork\*(rq.
.XX
 	EX_NOHOST	Host name not recognized.
I 2
.XX
	EX_TEMPFAIL	Message could not be sent immediately,
but was queued.
.PP
If invoked as
.I newaliases,
.I sendmail
will rebuild the alias database.
If invoked as
.I mailq,
.I sendmail
will print the contents of the mail queue.
E 2
.SH FILES
I 2
Except for
/usr/lib/sendmail.cf,
these pathnames are all specified in
/usr/lib/sendmail.cf.
Thus,
these values are only approximations.
.PP
E 2
.if t .ta 2i
.if n .ta 3i
/usr/lib/aliases	raw data for alias names
.br
I 2
/usr/lib/aliases.pag
.br
E 2
/usr/lib/aliases.dir	data base of alias names
.br
D 2
/usr/lib/aliases.pag
E 2
I 2
/usr/lib/sendmail.cf	configuration file
E 2
.br
D 2
/bin/mail	to deliver uucp mail
E 2
I 2
/usr/lib/sendmail.fc	frozen configuration
E 2
.br
I 2
/usr/lib/sendmail.hf	help file
.br
/usr/lib/sendmail.st	collected statistics
.br
D 4
/usr/bin/uux	to deliver uucp mail
.br
E 2
/usr/net/bin/v6mail	to deliver local mail
.br
D 2
/usr/net/bin/sendmail	to deliver Berknet mail
E 2
I 2
/usr/net/bin/sendberkmail	to deliver Berknet mail
E 2
.br
/usr/lib/mailers/arpa	to deliver ARPANET mail
.br
E 4
D 2
/tmp/mail*	temp file
E 2
I 2
/usr/spool/mqueue/*	temp files
E 2
D 4
.br
E 4
D 2
/tmp/xscript*	saved transcript
E 2
.SH SEE\ ALSO
D 2
biff(1), binmail(1), mail(1), newaliases(1), aliases(5)
E 2
I 2
D 4
biff(1), binmail(1), mail(1), aliases(5), sendmail.cf(5),
rmail(1), mailaddr(7);
E 4
I 4
D 5
binmail(1), mail(1), rmail(1),
syslog(3),
aliases(5), sendmail.cf(5),
mailaddr(7),
rc(8);
E 5
I 5
binmail(1), mail(1), rmail(1), syslog(3),
aliases(5), mailaddr(7), rc(8);
E 5
E 4
.br
DARPA Internet Request For Comments
RFC819, RFC821, RFC822;
.br
.ul
D 4
Sendmail \- An Internetwork Mail Router;
E 4
I 4
Sendmail \- An Internetwork Mail Router
(SMM:16);
E 4
.br
.ul
D 4
Sendmail Installation and Operation Guide.
E 2
.SH BUGS
D 2
.I Delivermail
sends one copy of the letter
to each user;
it should send one copy
of the letter to each host
and distribute to multiple users there
whenever possible.
.PP
.I Delivermail
assumes the addresses can be represented as one word.
E 2
I 2
.I Sendmail
converts blanks in addresses to dots.
E 2
This is incorrect according to the
I 2
old
E 2
.SM ARPANET
D 2
mail protocol RFC 733 (NIC 41952),
but is consistent with the real world.
E 2
I 2
mail protocol RFC733 (NIC 41952),
but is consistent with the
new protocols
(RFC822).
E 4
I 4
Sendmail Installation and Operation Guide
(SMM:7)
E 4
E 2
E 1
