h21897
s 00007/00003/00383
d D 4.3 83/12/27 22:03:57 eric 11 10
m 
c drop reference to sendmail.cf(5), which does not exist
e
s 00040/00027/00346
d D 4.2 83/07/28 10:53:19 eric 10 9
m 
c Updates to delete "DRAFT" etc. and make more accurate for 4.2
e
s 00000/00000/00373
d D 4.1 83/07/25 19:04:50 eric 9 8
m 
c 4.2 release version
e
s 00006/00000/00367
d D 3.8 82/12/14 17:08:33 eric 8 7
m 105
c Add the -bp flag (mailq command)
e
s 00026/00018/00341
d D 3.7 82/11/17 09:25:28 eric 7 6
m 060
c split operation mode (-bx) and delivery mode (option "d")
e
s 00173/00114/00186
d D 3.6 82/11/14 21:01:34 eric 6 5
m 
c make some attempt at matching reality
e
s 00021/00010/00279
d D 3.5 82/06/17 10:42:09 eric 5 4
c bring up to date with the -bx flag
e
s 00057/00016/00232
d D 3.4 82/03/07 11:21:36 eric 4 3
c add new flags
e
s 00015/00008/00233
d D 3.3 81/12/28 09:53:25 eric 3 2
c bring the documentation up to date.
e
s 00114/00117/00127
d D 3.2 81/10/19 22:25:13 eric 2 1
c bring up to date
e
s 00244/00000/00000
d D 3.1 81/08/19 08:01:05 eric 1 0
c date and time created 81/08/19 08:01:05 by eric
e
u
U
f b 
f i 
t
T
I 1
.TH SENDMAIL 8
I 4
.\"	%W%	%Y%	%G%
E 4
D 10
.UC 5
E 10
I 10
.UC 4
E 10
.SH NAME
D 6
sendmail \- send mail to arbitrary people
E 6
I 6
sendmail \- send mail over the internet
E 6
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/sendmail
D 2
[
.BR \- [ fr ]
.I address
] [
.B \-a
] [
.BI \-e x
] [
.B \-n
] [
.B \-m
] [
.B \-s
] [
.B \-i
] [
.B \-h
.I N
] address ...
E 2
I 2
D 6
[ options
E 6
I 6
D 10
[ flags
E 6
] [ address ... ]
E 10
I 10
[
flags
] [
address ...
]
E 10
I 6
.PP
.B newaliases
I 8
.PP
.B mailq
E 8
E 6
E 2
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Sendmail
D 6
sends a letter to one or more people,
routing the letter over whatever networks
E 6
I 6
sends a message to one or more people,
routing the message over whatever networks
E 6
are necessary.
.I Sendmail
D 6
will do inter-net forwarding as necessary
to deliver the mail to the correct place.
E 6
I 6
does internetwork forwarding as necessary
to deliver the message to the correct place.
E 6
.PP
.I Sendmail
is not intended as a user interface routine;
D 6
it is expected that other programs will provide user-friendly
front ends,
and
E 6
I 6
other programs provide user-friendly
front ends;
E 6
.I sendmail
D 6
will be used only to deliver pre-formatted messages.
E 6
I 6
is used only to deliver pre-formatted messages.
E 6
.PP
D 6
.I Sendmail
E 6
I 6
With no flags,
.I sendmail
E 6
reads its standard input
up to a control-D
or a line with a single dot
and sends a copy of the letter found there
to all of the addresses listed.
D 2
If the
.B \-i
flag is given,
single dots are ignored.
E 2
It determines the network to use
D 4
based on the syntax of the addresses.
By default,
addresses containing the character `@'
or the word \*(lqat\*(rq
are sent to the
.SM ARPANET;
addresses containing `!'
are sent to the
.SM UUCP
net,
and addresses containing `:' or `.'
are sent to the Berkeley network.
Other addresses are assumed to be local.
E 4
I 4
based on the syntax and contents of the addresses.
E 4
.PP
Local addresses are looked up in a file
D 2
constructed by
.IR newaliases (1)
from the data file
.I /usr/lib/aliases
E 2
and aliased appropriately.
Aliasing can be prevented by preceding the address
D 2
with a backslash or using the
.B \-n
flag.
E 2
I 2
with a backslash.
E 2
Normally the sender is not included in any alias
expansions, e.g.,
if `john' sends to `group',
and `group' includes `john' in the expansion,
then the letter will not be delivered to `john'.
D 2
The
.B \-m
flag disables this suppression.
E 2
.PP
D 2
.I Sendmail
computes the person sending the mail
by looking at your login name.
The \*(lqfrom\*(rq person
can be explicitly specified by using the
E 2
I 2
D 6
Options are:
E 6
I 6
Flags are:
E 6
.TP 1.2i
D 6
.RI \-A file
Use alternate alias file.
.TP 1.2i
E 6
D 7
\-a
E 7
I 7
D 10
\-ba
E 10
I 10
.B \-ba
E 10
E 7
Go into \s-1ARPANET\s0 mode.
All input lines must end with a CR-LF,
and all messages will be generated with a CR-LF at the end.
Also,
the ``From:'' and ``Sender:''
fields are examined for the name of the sender.
.TP 1.2i
I 3
D 7
\-as
D 6
Use the \s-2SMTP\s0 protocol.
See RFC 788.
E 6
I 6
Use the \s-2SMTP\s0 protocol as described in RFC821.
E 6
This flag implies all the operations of the
.B \-a
flag that are compatible with \s-2SMTP\s0.
.TP 1.2i
E 3
D 6
.RI \-C file
Use alternate configuration file.
E 6
I 6
\-ba
Do message collection and delivery synchronously.
This is the default.
E 6
.TP 1.2i
E 7
I 4
D 6
\-c
On mailers that are considered ``expensive'' to connect to,
don't initiate immediate connection.
This requires queueing.
E 6
I 6
D 10
\-bd
E 10
I 10
.B \-bd
E 10
Run as a daemon.  This requires Berkeley IPC.
E 6
.TP 1.2i
E 4
D 6
\-D
Run as a daemon.
Forces the
D 3
.B \-p
E 3
I 3
.B \-as
E 3
flag on.
I 4
Berkeley IPC is required.
E 6
I 6
D 7
\-bf
Collect the message and then delivery asynchronously.
E 6
E 4
.TP 1.2i
E 7
D 6
.RI \-d N
Set debugging level to
.I N.
E 6
I 6
D 10
\-bi
E 10
I 10
.B \-bi
E 10
Initialize the alias database.
E 6
.TP 1.2i
D 6
.RI \-e x
Set error processing to mode
.I x.
Valid modes are
`m' to mail back the error message,
`w' to ``write'' back the error message
(or mail it back if the sender is not logged in),
`p' to print the errors on the terminal
(default),
`q' to throw away error messages
(only exit status is returned),
and `e'
to do special processing for the BerkNet.
If the text of the message is not mailed back
by
modes `m' or `w'
and if the sender is local to this machine,
a copy of the message is appended to the file
``dead.letter''
in the sender's home directory.
E 6
I 6
D 7
\-bq
Collect the message and queue it. 
Do not attempt delivery immediately;
a later process will do delivery.
E 7
I 7
D 10
\-bm
E 10
I 10
.B \-bm
E 10
Deliver mail in the usual way (default).
E 7
E 6
.TP 1.2i
I 7
D 10
\-bs
E 10
I 10
.B \-bp
Print a listing of the queue.
.TP 1.2i
.B \-bs
E 10
Use the \s-2SMTP\s0 protocol as described in RFC821.
This flag implies all the operations of the
.B \-ba
flag that are compatible with \s-2SMTP\s0.
.TP 1.2i
D 10
\-bt
E 10
I 10
.B \-bt
E 10
Run in address test mode.
This mode reads addresses and shows the steps in parsing;
it is used for debugging configuration tables.
.TP 1.2i
E 7
I 6
D 10
\-bv
E 10
I 10
.B \-bv
E 10
Verify names only \- do not try to collect or deliver a message.
I 7
Verify mode is normally used for validating
users or mailing lists.
E 7
.TP 1.2i
D 10
\-bz
E 10
I 10
.B \-bz
E 10
Create the configuration freeze file.
.TP 1.2i
D 10
.RI \-C file
E 10
I 10
.BI \-C file
E 10
Use alternate configuration file.
.TP 1.2i
D 10
.RI \-d X
E 10
I 10
.BI \-d X
E 10
Set debugging value to
.I X.
.TP 1.2i
E 6
D 10
.RI \-F fullname
E 10
I 10
.BI \-F fullname
E 10
Set the full name of the sender.
.TP 1.2i
D 10
.RI \-f name
E 10
I 10
.BI \-f name
E 10
Sets the name of the ``from'' person
(i.e., the sender of the mail).
E 2
.B \-f
D 2
flag;
or, if the
.B \-a
flag is given,
sendmail looks in the body of the message
for a \*(lqFrom:\*(rq or \*(lqSender:\*(rq
field in
.SM ARPANET
format.
The
.B \-f
and
.B \-a
flags can be used
only by the special users
E 2
I 2
can only be used
by the special users
E 2
D 5
.I root
E 5
I 5
.I root,
.I daemon,
E 5
and
.I network,
or if the person you are trying to become
is the same as the person you are.
D 2
The
.B \-r
flag is entirely equivalent to the
.B \-f
flag; it is provided for ease of interface only.
E 2
I 2
.TP 1.2i
D 10
.RI \-h N
E 10
I 10
.BI \-h N
E 10
Set the hop count to
.I N.
The hop count is incremented every time the mail is
processed.
When it reaches a limit,
the mail is returned with an error message,
the victim of an aliasing loop.
.TP 1.2i
D 6
\-I
Initialize the alias database.
Normally this is done automatically
the first time
.I sendmail
is called after the master copy has been modified.
.TP 1.2i
\-i
D 5
Ignore dots on a line by themselves.
E 5
I 5
Do not take dots on a line by themselves
as a message terminator.
E 5
.TP 1.2i
.RI \-M x\|val
Redefine macro
.I x
to have value
.I val.
Generally used only for debugging.
.TP 1.2i
\-m
Send to ``me'' (the sender) also if I am in an alias expansion.
.TP 1.2i
E 6
D 10
\-n
E 10
I 10
.B \-n
E 10
Don't do aliasing.
.TP 1.2i
I 4
D 6
\-o
If set, this message is guaranteed to have new style headers
(i.e., commas instead of spaces between addresses).
If not set, and adaptive algorithm is used that will correctly
determine the header format in most cases.
E 6
I 6
D 10
.RI \-o x\|value
E 10
I 10
.BI \-o x\|value
E 10
Set option
.I x
to the specified
.I value.
Options are described below.
E 6
.TP 1.2i
D 5
\-p
Do initial verification of the message and recipients
and then fork so that the caller may continue.
This is designed to give polite synchronous messages
for most common problems.
.TP 1.2i
.RI \-Q quedir
E 5
I 5
D 6
.RI \-Q queuedir
E 5
Select the directory in which to queue messages.
Default is /usr/spool/mqueue.
.TP 1.2i
E 6
D 10
.RI \-q[ time ]
E 10
I 10
.BI \-q[ time ]
E 10
Processed saved messages in the queue at given intervals.
If
.IT time
is omitted,
process the queue once.
.IT Time
is given as a tagged number,
with `s' being seconds,
`m' being minutes,
`h' being hours,
`d' being days,
and
`w' being weeks.
For example,
``\-q1h30m'' or ``\-q90m''
would both set the timeout to one hour thirty minutes.
.TP 1.2i
E 4
D 3
\-p
Use the \s-2SMTP\s0 protocol.
See RFCxxx.
.TP 1.2i
E 3
D 10
.RI \-r name
An alternate and obsolete form of the \-f flag.
E 10
I 10
.BI \-r name
An alternate and obsolete form of the
.B \-f
flag.
E 10
.TP 1.2i
D 6
\-s
Save from lines in the header.
Normally a leading UNIX-style ``From'' line is eliminated.
.TP 1.2i
I 4
.RI \-T time
Set the timeout on messages in the queue to the specified time.
After sitting in the queue for this amount of time,
they will be returned to the sender.
The default is three days.
.TP 1.2i
E 6
E 4
D 10
\-t
E 10
I 10
.B \-t
E 10
Read message for recipients.
To:, Cc:, and Bcc: lines will be scanned for people to send to.
The Bcc: line will be deleted before transmission.
Any addresses in the argument list will be suppressed.
.TP 1.2i
D 5
\-V
E 5
I 5
D 6
\-bv
E 5
Verify names only \- do not try to collect or deliver a message.
E 6
I 6
D 10
\-v
E 10
I 10
.B \-v
E 10
Go into verbose mode.
Alias expansions will be announced, etc.
.PP
There are also a number of processing options that may be set.
Normally these will only be used by a system administrator.
Options may be set either on the command line
using the
.B \-o
flag
or in the configuration file.
These are described in detail in the
.ul
Installation and Operation Guide.
The options are:
E 6
I 5
.TP 1.2i
D 6
\-ba
Do message collection and delivery synchronously.
This is the default.
E 6
I 6
.RI A file
Use alternate alias file.
E 6
.TP 1.2i
D 6
\-bd
Run as a daemon.  This requires Berkeley IPC.
E 6
I 6
c
On mailers that are considered ``expensive'' to connect to,
don't initiate immediate connection.
This requires queueing.
I 7
.TP 1.2i
.RI d x
Set the delivery mode to
.I x.
Delivery modes are
`i' for interactive (synchronous) delivery,
`b' for background (asynchronous) delivery,
and
`q' for queue only \- i.e.,
actual delivery is done the next time the queue is run.
E 7
E 6
.TP 1.2i
D 6
\-bf
Collect the message and then delivery asynchronously.
E 6
I 6
D
Try to automatically rebuild the alias database
if necessary.
E 6
.TP 1.2i
D 6
\-bq
Collect the message and queue it. 
Do not attempt delivery immediately;
a later process will do delivery.
E 6
I 6
.RI e x
Set error processing to mode
.I x.
Valid modes are
`m' to mail back the error message,
`w' to ``write'' back the error message
(or mail it back if the sender is not logged in),
`p' to print the errors on the terminal
(default),
`q' to throw away error messages
(only exit status is returned),
and `e'
to do special processing for the BerkNet.
If the text of the message is not mailed back
by
modes `m' or `w'
and if the sender is local to this machine,
a copy of the message is appended to the file
``dead.letter''
in the sender's home directory.
E 6
E 5
.TP 1.2i
D 6
\-v
Go into verbose mode.
Alias expansions will be announced, etc.
E 6
I 6
.RI F mode
The mode to use when creating temporary files.
.TP 1.2i
f
Save UNIX-style From lines at the front of messages.
.TP 1.2i
.RI g N
The default group id to use when calling mailers.
.TP 1.2i
.RI H file
The SMTP help file.
.TP 1.2i
i
Do not take dots on a line by themselves
as a message terminator.
.TP 1.2i
.RI L n
The log level.
.TP 1.2i
m
Send to ``me'' (the sender) also if I am in an alias expansion.
.TP 1.2i
o
If set, this message may have
old style headers.
If not set,
this message is guaranteed to have new style headers
(i.e., commas instead of spaces between addresses).
If set, an adaptive algorithm is used that will correctly
determine the header format in most cases.
.TP 1.2i
.RI Q queuedir
Select the directory in which to queue messages.
.TP 1.2i
.RI r timeout
The timeout on reads;
if none is set,
.I sendmail
will wait forever for a mailer.
.TP 1.2i
.RI S file
Save statistics in the named file.
.TP 1.2i
s
Always instantiate the queue file,
even under circumstances where it is not strictly necessary.
.TP 1.2i
.RI T time
Set the timeout on messages in the queue to the specified time.
After sitting in the queue for this amount of time,
they will be returned to the sender.
The default is three days.
.TP 1.2i
.RI t stz,dtz
Set the name of the time zone.
.TP 1.2i
.RI u N
Set the default user id for mailers.
E 6
E 2
.PP
D 2
The
.BI \-e x
flag controls the disposition of error output,
as follows:
.TP 3n
.B e
Print errors on the standard output,
and echo a copy of the message when done.
It is assumed that a network server will
return the message back to the user.
.TP
.B m
Mail errors back to the user.
.TP
.B p
Print errors on the standard output.
.TP
.B q
Throw errors away;
only exit status is returned.
.TP
.B w
Write errors back to the user's terminal,
but only if the user is still logged in
and write permission is enabled;
otherwise errors are mailed back.
.LP
If the error is not mailed back,
and if the mail originated on the machine where the error occurred,
the letter is appended to the file
.I dead.letter
in the sender's home directory.
.PP
E 2
If the first character of the user name
is a vertical bar,
the rest of the user name is used as the name of a program
to pipe the mail to.
It may be necessary to quote the name of the user
to keep
.I sendmail
from suppressing the blanks from between arguments.
D 2
.PP
The message is normally edited to eliminate \*(lqFrom\*(rq
lines that might confuse other mailers.
In particular,
\*(lqFrom\*(rq lines in the header are deleted,
and \*(lqFrom\*(rq lines in the body are prepended by `>'.
The
.B \-s
flag saves \*(lqFrom\*(rq lines in the header.
.PP
The
.B \-h
flag gives a \*(lqhop-count\*(rq, i.e.,
a measure of how many times this message
has been processed by
.I sendmail
(presumably on different machines).
Each time
.I sendmail
processes a message,
it increases the hop-count by one;
if it exceeds 30
.I sendmail
assumes that an alias loop has occurred
and it aborts the message.
The hop-count defaults to zero.
E 2
.PP
.I Sendmail
returns an exit status
describing what it did.
D 10
The codes are defined in <sysexits.h>
E 10
I 10
The codes are defined in
.RI < sysexits.h >
E 10
.ta 3n +\w'EX_UNAVAILABLE'u+3n
.de XX
.ti \n(.iu
..
.in +\w'EX_UNAVAILABLE'u+6n
.XX
 	EX_OK	Successful completion on all addresses.
.XX
 	EX_NOUSER	User name not recognized.
.XX
 	EX_UNAVAILABLE	Catchall meaning necessary resources
were not available.
.XX
 	EX_SYNTAX	Syntax error in address.
.XX
 	EX_SOFTWARE	Internal software error,
including bad arguments.
.XX
 	EX_OSERR	Temporary operating system error,
such as \*(lqcannot fork\*(rq.
.XX
 	EX_NOHOST	Host name not recognized.
I 4
.XX
	EX_TEMPFAIL	Message could not be sent immediately,
but was queued.
I 6
.PP
If invoked as
.I newaliases,
.I sendmail
will rebuild the alias database.
I 8
If invoked as
.I mailq,
.I sendmail
will print the contents of the mail queue.
E 8
E 6
E 4
.SH FILES
I 6
Except for
/usr/lib/sendmail.cf,
these pathnames are all specified in
/usr/lib/sendmail.cf.
Thus,
these values are only approximations.
.PP
E 6
.if t .ta 2i
.if n .ta 3i
/usr/lib/aliases	raw data for alias names
.br
/usr/lib/aliases.pag
.br
/usr/lib/aliases.dir	data base of alias names
.br
/usr/lib/sendmail.cf	configuration file
.br
I 6
/usr/lib/sendmail.fc	frozen configuration
.br
E 6
D 3
/bin/mail	to deliver uucp mail
E 3
I 3
/usr/lib/sendmail.hf	help file
E 3
.br
I 3
/usr/lib/sendmail.st	collected statistics
.br
/usr/bin/uux	to deliver uucp mail
.br
E 3
/usr/net/bin/v6mail	to deliver local mail
.br
D 4
/usr/net/bin/sendmail	to deliver Berknet mail
E 4
I 4
/usr/net/bin/sendberkmail	to deliver Berknet mail
E 4
.br
/usr/lib/mailers/arpa	to deliver ARPANET mail
.br
D 3
/tmp/mail*	temp file
E 3
I 3
D 4
/usr/spool/mqueue/*	temp file
E 4
I 4
/usr/spool/mqueue/*	temp files
E 4
E 3
.br
D 6
/tmp/xscript*	saved transcript
E 6
D 11
.SH SEE\ ALSO
D 6
biff(1), binmail(1), mail(1), newaliases(1), aliases(5), sendmail.cf(5),
E 6
I 6
biff(1), binmail(1), mail(1), aliases(5), sendmail.cf(5),
E 6
D 3
RFC 733 (NIC 41952)
E 3
I 3
D 4
RFC 733 (NIC 41952), RFC 788
E 4
I 4
D 10
rmail(1),
D 6
RFC 733 (NIC 41952), RFC 788,
E 6
I 6
RFC819, RFC821, RFC822,
E 10
I 10
rmail(1), mailaddr(7);
E 11
I 11
.SH SEE ALSO
biff(1),
binmail(1),
mail(1),
rmail(1),
aliases(5),
mailaddr(7);
E 11
.br
DARPA Internet Request For Comments
RFC819, RFC821, RFC822;
.br
E 10
E 6
.ul
D 6
Sendmail \- An Internetwork Mail Router.
E 6
I 6
D 10
Sendmail \- An Internetwork Mail Router,
E 10
I 10
Sendmail \- An Internetwork Mail Router;
.br
E 10
.ul
Sendmail Installation and Operation Guide.
E 6
E 4
E 3
.SH BUGS
.I Sendmail
converts blanks in addresses to dots.
This is incorrect according to the
I 6
old
E 6
.SM ARPANET
D 6
mail protocol RFC 733 (NIC 41952),
but is consistent with the real world.
E 6
I 6
mail protocol RFC733 (NIC 41952),
but is consistent with the
new protocols
(RFC822).
E 6
E 1
