h22334
s 00002/00002/00060
d R 6.6 86/06/03 16:05:38 cuccia 8 7
c STICKY* heading no longer bold...
e
s 00000/00000/00062
d R 6.5 86/06/03 15:58:09 anne 7 6
c 
e
s 00000/00000/00062
d R 6.4 86/06/03 15:47:14 cuccia 6 5
c no corrections made
e
s 00003/00025/00059
d D 6.3 86/05/26 16:12:31 karels 5 4
c update
e
s 00044/00010/00040
d D 6.2 86/02/02 02:31:46 donn 4 3
c Added a description of sticky directories.
e
s 00001/00001/00049
d D 6.1 85/04/27 13:52:07 mckusick 3 2
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00001/00001/00049
d D 5.1 85/04/27 13:51:44 mckusick 2 1
c manual page distributed with 4.2BSD
e
s 00050/00000/00000
d D 4.1 85/04/27 13:51:27 mckusick 1 0
c manual page distributed with 4.1BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
.\"
D 2
.TH STICKY 8 "4/1/81"
E 2
I 2
D 3
.TH STICKY 8 "4 February 1983"
E 3
I 3
.TH STICKY 8 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 4
.SH NAME
D 4
sticky \- executable files with persistent text
E 4
I 4
sticky \- persistent text and append-only directories
E 4
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 4
While the `sticky bit', mode 01000 (see
.IR chmod (2)),
E 4
I 4
The
.I "sticky bit"
(file mode bit 01000, see
.IR chmod (2))
is used to indicate special treatment
for certain executable files and directories.
.SH "STICKY TEXT EXECUTABLE FILES"
While the `sticky bit'
E 4
is set on a sharable executable file,
the text of that file will not be removed from the system swap area.
Thus the file does not have to be fetched from the file system
upon each execution.
D 5
As long as a copy remains in the swap area, the
original text cannot be overwritten in the file system,
nor can the file be deleted.
(Directory entries can be removed so long as one link remains.)
E 5
I 5
Shareable text segments are normally placed
in a least-frequently-used cache after use,
and thus the `sticky bit' has little effect on commonly-used text images.
E 5
.PP
D 4
Sharable files are made by the
E 4
I 4
Sharable executable files are made by the
E 4
.B \-n
and
.B \-z
options of
.IR ld (1).
.PP
D 4
To replace a sticky file that has been used do:
E 4
I 4
D 5
To replace a sticky text executable file that has been used,
perform the following steps:
E 4
(1) Clear the sticky bit with
.IR chmod (1).
(2) Execute the old program to flush the swapped copy.
This can be done safely even if others are using it.
(3) Overwrite the sticky file.
If the file is being executed by any process,
writing will be prevented; it suffices to simply remove the file
and then rewrite it, being careful to reset the owner and mode with
.I chmod
and
.IR chown (2).
(4) Set the sticky bit again.
.PP
E 5
D 4
Only the super-user can set the sticky bit.
.SH BUGS
Are self-evident.
E 4
I 4
Only the super-user can set the sticky bit
on a sharable executable file.
.SH "STICKY DIRECTORIES"
A directory whose `sticky bit' is set
becomes an append-only directory, or, more accurately,
a directory in which the deletion of files is restricted.
A file in a sticky directory may only be removed or renamed
by a user if the user has write permission for the directory and
the user is the owner of the file, the owner of the directory,
or the super-user.
This feature is usefully applied to directories such as /tmp
which must be publicly writable but
should deny users the license to arbitrarily
delete or rename each others' files.
E 4
.PP
D 4
Is largely unnecessary on the VAX; matters only for large programs that
will page heavily to start, since text pages are normally cached incore
E 4
I 4
Any user may create a sticky directory.
See
.IR chmod (1)
for details about modifying file modes.
.SH BUGS
D 5
Sticky text executable files are
largely unnecessary on the VAX.
The sticky attribute is useful only for large programs that
will page heavily to start, since text pages are normally cached in core
E 4
as long as possible after all instances of a text image exit.
I 4
.PP
E 5
Since the text areas of sticky text executables are stashed in the swap area,
abuse of the feature can cause a system to run out of swap.
.PP
Neither
.IR open (2)
nor
.IR mkdir (2)
will create a file with the sticky bit set.
E 4
E 1
