h60180
s 00010/00006/00174
d D 6.5 86/05/26 22:17:26 karels 6 5
c clarifications
e
s 00003/00000/00177
d D 6.4 85/10/13 14:00:35 eric 5 4
c finish documenting -m flag
e
s 00033/00008/00144
d D 6.3 85/10/13 13:49:42 eric 4 3
c add mark facility; clean up some small glitches
e
s 00093/00062/00059
d D 6.2 85/09/17 20:15:14 eric 3 2
c facilities in syslog
e
s 00059/00123/00062
d D 6.1 85/04/27 16:04:01 mckusick 2 1
c 4.3BSD beta release manual page
e
s 00185/00000/00000
d D 5.1 85/04/27 16:03:20 mckusick 1 0
c manual page first distributed with 4.2BSD
e
u
U
t
T
I 1
D 6
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
E 6
I 6
.\" Copyright (c) 1983,1986 Regents of the University of California.
E 6
.\" All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\" specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\"	%W% (Berkeley) %G%
D 3
.\"
.\"	@(#)syslog.8	4.2		7/28/83
D 2
.TH SYSLOG 8 "7/28/83"
E 2
I 2
.TH SYSLOG 8 "%Q%"
E 3
I 3
.TH SYSLOGD 8 "%Q%"
E 3
E 2
.UC 5
.SH NAME
D 2
syslog \- log systems messages
E 2
I 2
syslogd \- log systems messages
E 2
.SH SYNOPSIS
D 2
/etc/syslog [
E 2
I 2
.B /etc/syslogd
[
E 2
D 3
.BI \-m N
E 3
I 3
.BI \-f configfile
E 3
] [
I 4
.BI \-m markinterval
] [
E 4
D 3
.BI \-f name
] [
E 3
.B \-d
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
D 2
.I Syslog
E 2
I 2
.I Syslogd
E 2
D 3
reads a datagram socket
and logs each line it reads into a set of files
E 3
I 3
reads and logs messages into a set of files
E 3
described by the configuration file
/etc/syslog.conf.
D 2
.I Syslog
configures when it starts up
and whenever it receives a hangup signal.
.PP
E 2
Each message is one line.
A message can contain a priority code,
D 2
marked by a digit in angle braces
E 2
I 2
marked by a number in angle braces
E 2
at the beginning of the line.
Priorities are defined in
D 2
.RI < syslog.h >,
as follows:
.IP LOG_ALERT \w'LOG_WARNING'u+2n
this priority should essentially never
be used.  It applies only to messages that
are so important that every user should be
aware of them, e.g., a serious hardware failure.
.IP LOG_SALERT
messages of this priority should be
issued only when immediate attention is needed
by a qualified system person, e.g., when some
valuable system resource dissappears.  They get
sent to a list of system people.
.IP LOG_EMERG
Emergency messages are not sent to users,
but represent major conditions.  An example
might be hard disk failures.  These could be
logged in a separate file so that critical
conditions could be easily scanned.
.IP LOG_ERR
these represent error conditions, such as soft
disk failures, etc.
.IP LOG_CRIT
such messages contain critical information,
but which can not be classed as errors, for example,
`su' attempts.
Messages of this priority and higher
are typically logged on the system console.
.IP LOG_WARNING
issued when an abnormal condition has been
detected, but recovery can take place.
.IP LOG_NOTICE
something that falls in the class of
``important information''; this class is informational
but important enough that you don't want to throw
it away casually.
Messages without any priority assigned to them
are typically mapped into this priority.
.IP LOG_INFO
information level messages.  These messages
could be thrown away without problems, but should
be included if you want to keep a close watch on
your system.
.IP LOG_DEBUG
it may be useful to log certain debugging
information.  Normally this will be thrown away.
E 2
I 2
D 6
.RI < syslog.h >.
E 6
I 6
.RI < sys/syslog.h >.
E 6
I 3
.I Syslogd
reads from the UNIX domain socket
.IR /dev/log ,
from an Internet domain socket specified in
.IR /etc/services ,
and from the special device
.I /dev/klog
(to read kernel messages).
E 3
E 2
.PP
D 2
It is expected that the kernel will not log anything below
LOG_ERR priority.
.PP
E 2
I 2
.I Syslogd
configures when it starts up
and whenever it receives a hangup signal.
E 2
D 3
The configuration file is in two sections
separated by a blank line.
The first section defines files that
E 3
I 3
Lines in the configuration file have a
.I selector
to determine the message priorities to which the line applies
and an
.IR action .
I 6
The
.I action
field are separated from the selector by one or more tabs.
E 6
.PP
Selectors are semicolon separated lists of priority specifiers.
Each priority has a
.I facility
describing the part of the system that generated the message,
a dot,
and a
.I level
indicating the severity of the message.
Symbolic names may be used.
An asterisk selects all facilities.
D 6
All messages of the specified level or higher
E 6
I 6
All messages of the specified level or higher (greater severity)
E 6
are selected.
More than one facility may be selected using commas to separate them.
For example:
.PP
.ti +5
*.emerg;mail,daemon.crit
.PP
Selects all facilities at the
.I emerg
level and the
.I mail
and
.I daemon
facilities at the
.I crit
level.
D 4
Known facilities and levels are described in
.IR syslog (3).
E 4
.PP
I 4
Known facilities and levels
recognized by
.I syslogd
are those listed in
.IR syslog (3)
without the leading ``LOG_''.
The additional facility
D 6
``mark'' has a message sent to it every
E 6
I 6
``mark'' has a message at priority LOG_INFO sent to it every
E 6
20 minutes
(this may be changed with the
.B \-m
flag).
I 6
The ``mark'' facility is not enabled by a facility field containing an asterisk.
E 6
The level ``none'' may be used to disable a particular facility.
For example,
.PP
.ti +5
D 6
*.debug;mark.none
E 6
I 6
*.debug;mail.none
E 6
.PP
Sends all messages
.I except
D 6
mark messages to the selected file.
E 6
I 6
mail messages to the selected file.
E 6
.PP
E 4
The second part of each line describes where the message is to be logged
if this line is selected.
There are four forms:
.IP \(bu 3n
A filename (beginning with a leading slash).
The file will be opened in append mode.
.IP \(bu 3n
A hostname preceeded by an at sign (``@'').
Selected messages are forwarded to the
E 3
D 2
.I syslog
will log into.
E 2
I 2
.I syslogd
D 3
will log into or host names that
.I syslogd
will forward messages to.
E 2
Each line contains
D 2
a single digit which defines the lowest priority
(highest numbered priority)
that this file will receive,
E 2
I 2
a set of numbers which define the message priorities
that this file or host will receive;
E 2
an optional asterisk
which guarantees that something gets output
D 2
at least every 20 minutes,
and a pathname.
E 2
I 2
at least every 15 minutes;
and a pathname or a hostname prefixed by `@'.
E 2
The second part of the file
D 2
contains a list of users that will be
informed on SALERT level messages.
E 2
I 2
contains a list of users who will receive messages if logged in.
Each line contains an optional
set of numbers which define the message priorities
that this user will receive followed by the user's login name.
The default priority level is LOG_SALERT if none is specified.
Priority numbers may range from 1 to 31,
and may be given in comma-separated lists
and/or dash-separated ranges.
E 3
I 3
on the named host.
.IP \(bu 3n
A comma separated list of users.
Selected messages are written to those users
if they are logged in.
.IP \(bu 3n
An asterisk.
Selected messages are written to all logged-in users.
E 3
.PP
I 4
Blank lines and lines beginning with `#' are ignored.
.PP
E 4
E 2
For example, the configuration file:
I 4
.PP
E 4
.nf
D 4

E 4
D 2
	5*/dev/console
	8/usr/spool/adm/syslog
	3/usr/adm/critical
E 2
I 2
D 3
	1-5*/dev/console
	8-9,25/usr/spool/adm/syslog
	1-3/usr/adm/critical
	1-4@ucbarpa
E 3
I 3
.ta 4m +\w'*.alert,auth.warning'u+3
D 4
	kern.debug	/dev/console
	*.notice,mail.info	/usr/spool/adm/syslog
E 4
I 4
	kern,mark.debug	/dev/console
	*.notice;mail.info	/usr/spool/adm/syslog
E 4
	*.crit	/usr/adm/critical
	kern.err	@ucbarpa
	*.emerg	*
	*.alert	eric,kridle
D 4
	*.alert,auth.warning	ralph
E 3
E 2

E 4
I 4
	*.alert;auth.warning	ralph
E 4
D 3
	eric
	kridle
D 2
	kalash
E 2
I 2
	1-5,25ralph
E 2

E 3
.fi
D 2
logs all messages of priority 5 or higher
E 2
I 2
D 3
logs all messages of priorities 1 through 5
E 2
onto the system console,
D 2
including timing marks every 20 minutes;
all messages of priority 8 or higher
E 2
I 2
including timing marks every 15 minutes;
all messages of priorities 8, 9 or 25
E 2
into the file /usr/spool/adm/syslog;
D 2
and all messages of priority 3 or higher
into /usr/adm/critical.
The users ``eric'', ``kridle'', and ``kalash''
E 2
I 2
all messages of priorities 3 or higher
into /usr/adm/critical and
forwards all messages of priorities 4 or higher to ucbarpa.
The users ``eric'' and ``kridle''
E 2
will be informed on any subalert messages.
I 2
The user ``ralph''
will be informed on any message of priorities 5 or higher,
and any message of priority 25.
E 3
I 3
D 4
logs all kernel messages onto the system console,
E 4
I 4
.PP
logs all kernel messages
and 20 minute marks onto the system console,
E 4
all notice (or higher) level messages and all mail system messages
except debug messages
into the file /usr/spool/adm/syslog,
and all critical messages
into /usr/adm/critical;
kernel messages of error severity or higher are forwarded
to ucbarpa.
All users will be informed of any emergency messages,
the users ``eric'' and ``kridle''
will be informed of any alert messages,
and the user ``ralph''
will be informed of any alert message,
or any warning message (or higher)
from the authorization system.
E 3
E 2
.PP
The flags are:
.TP 0.5i
D 3
.B \-m
Set the mark interval to
.I N
D 2
(default 20 minutes).
E 2
I 2
(default 15 minutes).
E 2
.TP
E 3
.B \-f
Specify an alternate configuration file.
.TP
I 5
.B \-m
Select the number of minutes between mark messages.
.TP
E 5
.B \-d
D 3
Turn on debugging (if compiled in).
E 3
I 3
Turn on debugging.
E 3
.PP
I 2
.I Syslogd
creates the file /etc/syslog.pid, if possible,
containing a single line with its process id.
This can be used to kill or reconfigure
.I syslogd.
.PP
E 2
To bring
D 2
.I syslog
E 2
I 2
.I syslogd
E 2
down,
D 2
it should be sent a terminate signal.
It logs that it is going down
and then waits approximately 30 seconds
for any additional messages to come in.
.PP
There are some special messages that cause control functions.
``<*>N'' sets the default message priority to
.I N.
``<$>'' causes
.I syslog
to reconfigure
(equivalent to a hangup signal).
This can be used in a shell file run automatically
early in the morning to truncate the log.
.PP
.I Syslog
creates the file
/etc/syslog.pid
if possible
containing a single line
with its process id.
This can be used to kill or reconfigure
.I syslog.
.\".PP
.\".I Syslog
.\"can also be compiled to use
.\".IR mpx (2)
.\"files instead of datagrams
.\"if you are running V7.
.\"In this case it creates and reads the file
.\"/dev/log.
E 2
I 2
D 3
it should be sent a terminate signal (e.g. kill `cat /etc/syslog.pid`).
E 3
I 3
it should be sent a terminate signal (e.g. kill \`cat /etc/syslog.pid\`).
E 3
E 2
.SH FILES
D 2
/etc/syslog.conf \- the configuration file
.br
/etc/syslog.pid \- the process id
.\".br
.\"/dev/log \- under V7, the mpx file
E 2
I 2
.ta \w'/etc/syslog.conf    'u
.nf
/etc/syslog.conf	the configuration file
/etc/syslog.pid	the process id
D 3
/dev/log	UNIX domain datagram socket to listen to
E 3
I 3
/dev/log	Name of the UNIX domain datagram log socket
/dev/klog	The kernel log device
E 3
.fi
E 2
D 3
.SH BUGS
D 2
LOG_ALERT and LOG_SUBALERT messages
should only be allowed to privileged programs.
.PP
Actually,
.I syslog
is not clever enough to deal with kernel error messages
in the current implementation.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
E 2
I 2
Kernel priorities should only be allowed to privileged programs.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
E 3
I 3
.SH SEE ALSO
logger(1),
E 3
E 2
syslog(3)
E 1
